«L1:Payment Schedule For Insured Services Provided by a Physician»
April 1, 2024 
 
 
ehealthsask.ca 

Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
April 1, 2024 
Page 2
BLANK PAGE INTENTIONAL

Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
April 1, 2024 
Page 3
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
Introduction 
7 
To Request a Change to the Payment Schedule 
8 
Services Provided Outside Saskatchewan  
•
Out of Canada Services
9 
•
Out of Saskatchewan Services
9 
•
Coverage for Services Unavailable in Canada
9 
Billing For Services Provided To Out-Of-
Province Beneficiaries 
10 
Definitions 
11 
Documentation Requirements 
15 
Services Billable by Entitlement or by Approval 
16 
Assessment Rules 
•
Introduction
17 
•
Visits
17 
•
Hospital Care
18 
•
Consultations
18 
•
Virtual Care Services
20 
•
Procedures
22 
•
Multiple Services – General Assessment Rules
24 
General Information 
•
Services Supervised by a Physician
27 
•
Submission of Accounts
28 
•
Out of Province Patients
29 
•
Location of Service Indicators
30 
•
Practise Entirely Outside the Medical Care Plan
30 
•
Special Contracts
30 
•
Patient Identification
31 
•
Temporary Health Coverage
31 
Services Not Insured by the Ministry of Health 
32 
Assessment of Accounts 
35 
Verification Program 
36 
Information Sources 
•
Claims Analysis Unit
37 
•
Processing Support
37 
•
Physician Education
37 
•
Medical Consultant
38 
•
Financial Services
38 
•
Physician Registry & Support Services
38 
•
Policy, Governance and Audit
39 
•
eHealth  - Technical Issues
39 
•
Fee for Services & Statistics
39 
Reciprocal Billing 
•
For Patients from Other Provinces
41 
•
Physician Services Excluded from Reciprocal billing
42 
Explanatory Codes for Physicians 
43 

Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BLANK PAGE INTENTIONAL 

Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 5
 
LIST OF INSURED SERVICES, PROCEDURES AND VISITS 
 
 
Miscellaneous Services 
Section A 
General Practice 
Section B 
Pediatrics 
Section C 
Internal Medicine 
Section D 
Psychiatry 
Section E 
Dermatology 
Section F 
Medical Genetics 
Section G 
Anesthesia 
Section H 
Cardiology 
Section I 
Surgical Assistant 
Section J 
Neurosurgery 
Section K 
General Surgery 
Section L 
Orthopedic Surgery 
Section M 
Plastic Surgery 
Section N 
Physical Medicine 
Section O 
Obstetrics and Gynecology 
Section P 
Neurology 
Section Q 
Urological Surgery 
Section R 
Ophthalmology 
Section S 
Otolaryngology 
Section T 
Pathology 
Section V 
Diagnostic Ultrasound 
Section W 
Diagnostic Radiology 
Section X 
Therapeutic Radiology and Nuclear Medicine  
Section Y 

Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BLANK PAGE INTENTIONAL 

Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 7
 
«L1:INTRODUCTION»
 
1. 
This Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician (the "Physician Payment Schedule") 
is effective for services provided on and after April 1, 2024. It lists a payment for each insured service 
which will be made at 100% unless the "Assessment Rules" indicate that payment for the service: 
 
 
 
a) is included in the composite payment made for another service; or 
b) is subject to an adjustment when billed in addition to another service. 
 
 
2. 
Medical Services Branch has the authority to pay physicians for medically required services. Pursuant to 
The Saskatchewan Medical Care Insurance Act (the "Act") s.s. 14 (1): 
 
 
 
 
Subject to sections 15 and 24, services that are medically required services provided in 
 
Saskatchewan by a physician are insured services. 
 
 
3. 
Physicians who have entered into an Automated Claims Submission and Direct Payment Agreement 
with the Ministry of Health, which sets the payment for each service, must bill services to Medical 
Services Branch in accordance with the Physician Payment Schedule.  Pursuant to The Saskatchewan 
Medical Care Insurance Payment Regulations 1994 (2021), s.s. 6(1)(d): 
 
 
 
 
Where an insured service is provided in Saskatchewan to a beneficiary by: 
 
 
 
 
(d) a physician, the minister shall make payment for that service in accordance with the 
physician payment schedule and the assessment rules contained in that schedule.  
 
  
4. 
All services billed to Medical Services Branch are the sole responsibility of the physician rendering the 
service with respect to appropriate documentation and billing (see also "Documentation Requirements 
for the Purposes of Billing"). 
 
 
5. 
If a specific service code for the service rendered is listed in the Physician Payment Schedule, that 
service code must be used in claiming for the service, without substitution.   
 
 
6. 
When a physician service is not listed in the Physician Payment Schedule, the physician should write to 
Medical Services Branch and request advice on the correct submission of the account:   
 
3475 Albert Street, Regina SK, S4S 6X6 or fax 306-798-0582 
 
Your correspondence must outline: 
1. The nature and description of the service; 
2. The frequency of the service; 
3. The length of time spent performing the service; and 
4. The suggested fee and rationale. 

Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 8
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
7. 
When unusual time, skill or attention is required in the management of any medical condition, a 
payment greater than the amount indicated in the Physician Payment Schedule may be authorized 
upon receipt of a written report.    
 
To request consideration of payment, please write to:   
 
Medical Services Branch, 3475 Albert Street, Regina SK, S4S 6X6 or fax 306-787-3761. 
 
Your correspondence must outline: 
1. The nature and description of the service; 
2. The frequency of the service; 
3. The length of time spent performing the service; and 
4. The suggested fee and rationale. 
 
«L2:TO REQUEST A CHANGE TO THE PAYMENT SCHEDULE»
 
The Ministry of Health and the Saskatchewan Medical Association (SMA) consider implementation of new 
service codes, deletions or revisions to the Physician Payment Schedule upon approval by the Payment 
Schedule Review Committee (PSRC) comprised of both Ministry and SMA representatives.   
 
To request/initiate a change, deletion or addition to the Payment Schedule, please contact: 
 
Saskatchewan Medical Association Tariff Committee 
201 – 2174 Airport Drive  
SASKATOON SK S7L 6M6 www.sma.sk.ca 
 
The SMA has additional information about the process on their website at: 
 
https://www.sma.sk.ca 

Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 9
 
«L2:SERVICES PROVIDED OUTSIDE SASKATCHEWAN»
 
1. 
Services out-of-Saskatchewan – In-Canada Coverage 
 
a) 
Insured services not available in Saskatchewan should be sought in another province. It is 
important for you or your patient to contact the out-of-province provider BEFORE the service is 
received to confirm the service is eligible to be billed through the Inter-Provincial Billing 
Agreement (IRBA) otherwise the patient may be responsible for costs. 
 
b) 
Most physician and hospital services are billed through IRBA when provided within the publicly 
funded health care system. Services provided outside of the publicly funded health care system 
are not covered in the IRBA. 
 
c) 
Physician services in Quebec may be charged to the patient. Patients can submit a bill to the 
Ministry of Health for consideration of reimbursement at Saskatchewan rates. 
 
d) 
Services not fully covered under the IRBA, including some services in Quebec and services 
provided outside of the publicly funded health care system, may be considered for coverage in 
certain circumstances for specific conditions when a written request is submitted to the 
Ministry of Health. For coverage, prior approval must be obtained BEFORE the provision of 
services. A written prior approval request, including costs, must:  
 
 
• 
be received from a Saskatchewan specialist in the same field of practice as the required 
service; 
 
 
• 
describe the circumstances of the case, including why the service(s) are medically required 
and why it must be obtained outside of the province; and, 
 
 
• 
clearly describe the service(s) being requested, including whether it is available in 
Saskatchewan 
 
 
 
2. 
Services out-of-Canada – Limited Coverage 
 
a) 
Emergency services, or services resulting from an unforeseen or unanticipated medical 
situation, are limited to payments at Saskatchewan rates. Prior approval is not required. 
 
b) 
Non-emergency services, or elective medical services deemed to be pre-arranged, are only 
considered for coverage in exceptional circumstances. Prior approval must be obtained from 
the Ministry of Health in writing BEFORE out-of-Canada services are obtained. Regulations do 
not permit reimbursement when prior approval is not obtained before services are provided. As 
such, to avoid misplaced coverage expectations, it is strongly recommended prior approval is 
obtained before a patient referral is made outside of Canada. 
 
 
 
3. 
Services Unavailable in Canada – Prior Approval Coverage: 
 
When an insured service is unavailable in Canada, cost coverage may be considered in exceptional 
circumstances. All of the following conditions must be met: 
 
a) 
A Saskatchewan listed specialist, within whose field of practice the required service lies, submits 
a written application to the Ministry requesting consideration of coverage BEFORE out-of-
Canada services are obtained. 
 
b) 
The application must state: 
• 
the patient's name, address and valid Health Services Number; 
• 
pertinent clinical details and diagnosis; 
• 
the specific and detailed nature of the service(s) required;  
• 
confirmation by the specialist that, to the best of their knowledge, the specific service(s) 
being requested is not obtainable within Canada; and, 
• 
where possible, the name and location of the physician who is to provide the service. 

Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 10
 
SERVICES PROVIDED OUTSIDE SASKATCHEWAN 
 
 
 
Services Unavailable in Canada – Prior Approval Coverage – CONTINUED: 
 
 
 
 
c) 
A coverage decision must be obtained in writing from the Medical Services Branch BEFORE the 
date of service. This decision is provided in writing to the requesting specialist, who is 
responsible for following up with the patient regarding the decision and the patient's plan for 
ongoing care. 
 
 
 
 
 
All prior approval requests must be submitted to: 
 
Director, Insured Services 
Medical Services Branch, Ministry of Health 
3475 Albert Street, Regina, SK  S4S 6X6 
Phone :  306-798-0013/Fax:  306-798-1124 
 
 
Email:  prss@health.gov.sk.ca 
 
 
«L2:BILLING FOR SERVICES PROVIDED TO OUT-OF-PROVINCE BENEFICIARIES»
 
1. 
With the exception of Quebec residents, Saskatchewan physicians providing insured services to any 
Canadian resident should submit their accounts electronically to Medical Services Branch, Ministry of 
Health, for processing at Saskatchewan rates. 
 
 
 
2. 
Certain services may be excluded from Inter-Provincial Reciprocal Billing Agreement but may be 
insured by the beneficiary's home province. For clarification in these instances, it is suggested you 
forward a letter of inquiry to the beneficiary's provincial plan.

«L1:DEFINITIONS»

1. Age Categories
   a) Premature -- a child weighing 2.2 kg or less;
   
   b) Newborn -- a child in the first 10 days of life;
   
   c) Infant -- a child in its first year of life;
   
   d) Child -- any person under thirteen years of age, except where noted otherwise;
   
   e) Adult -- a person who has attained the age of 13 years - except where noted otherwise.

2. Classifications
   Designates the time span applied by the Assessment Rules to other services in arriving at an appropriate payment.
   
   a) Diagnostic -- the day of the procedure;
   
   b) "0" Day -- the day of the procedure;
   
   c) "10" Day -- the day of and ten days following the procedure;
   
   d) "42" Day -- the day of and forty-two days following the procedure.

3. Clinic
   The arrangement whereby two or more physicians are practising their profession, medical records and histories of the patients of those physicians are being maintained, and each of those physicians has access to those medical records and histories.

4. Composite / All Inclusive
   A payment which includes the payment for more than one service associated with the treatment of a condition.

5. Fee-for-Service
   Services are to be billed on the basis of the individual appropriate visit or procedure items included in the Payment Schedule at the listed amount and are subject to the Assessment Rules.

6. By Report
   The claim must be made on one of the regular claim forms (not by automated submission) and must be accompanied by a detailed explanation of the circumstances and the services provided. Payment will be assessed on the basis of the information provided. An estimated appropriate fee may be provided.

7. Hospital
   A hospital as defined in The Hospital Standards Act.

8. Palliative
   As defined by the Saskatchewan Health Authority (SHA) is a life-limiting/life threatening illness where the focus is on comfort rather than cure. The Drug Plan and Extended Benefits Branch of the Ministry of Health, further defines palliative as patients who are in the late stages of a terminal illness where life expectancy is measured in months.

9. Pediatric Procedural Supplements
   Are additional payment(s) for procedural services provided in the operating theatre and applies to patients receiving diagnostic (including section W and X applicable codes but excluding ECGs), 0, 10 or 42-day procedures only.

10. Referral
    Is the request for a consultation and/or transfer of responsibility for the condition existing at the time of referral to:
    
    a) A physician by another physician;
    b) A specialist by an optometrist;
    c) A specialist in orthopedic surgery, plastic surgery, otolaryngology, neurology, neurosurgery or dermatology, by a dentist;
    d) A specialist by a chiropractor;
    e) A specialist by a registered nurse (nurse practitioner);
    f) A specialist in obstetrics and gynecology, pediatrics, neonatology, anesthesia, radiology, psychiatry or pathology, by a midwife.

11. Physician
    A legally qualified medical practitioner whose name is inscribed in the register kept by the Registrar of the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Saskatchewan as being qualified and licensed to practise medicine, surgery and midwifery in Saskatchewan and who is in good standing and not under suspension pursuant to any of the provisions of The Medical Professions Act.

12. General Practitioner
    A physician who engages in the general practice of medicine or a physician who is not a specialist as defined by the Act.

13. Emergency Room Physician
    A physician providing scheduled on-site regular service/coverage in the emergency departments as designated by the Saskatchewan Health Authority (SHA).

14. Specialist
    A physician whose name is on the list of physicians maintained by the Registrar of the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Saskatchewan as being entitled to receive payment at specialists' rates.

15. Foreign Certified Specialist
    
    A physician whose name is on the list of physicians maintained by the Registrar of The College of Physicians and Surgeons of Saskatchewan as having received specialty training and certification in a foreign country, is restricting their practice to the area of foreign specialist certification and will be paid at 'Specialists' rates for both visits and procedures. Physicians will be deemed to belong to the specialty of highest achieved certification for purposes of billing.

16. Allied health care personnel
    A person who is:
    
    a) Not a physician, dentist, optometrist, or chiropractor.
    b) A pharmacist, registered or licensed practical nurse, public health nurse, psychiatric nurse, mental health worker, physiotherapist, occupational therapist, respiratory therapist, ambulance paramedic, psychologist, podiatrist etc.
    
    This is not an all-inclusive list – see also 790A-791A, 796A-797A, 793A.

17. Locum Tenens
    A person who is:
    
    a) A fully licensed physician substituting and providing services for another fully licensed physician. In this case the locum must bill using their own physician number and name. The Ministry of Health will make payment to the locum;
    
    b) A physician who has been granted a temporary license by the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Saskatchewan to do a locum tenens for a fully licensed principal physician. In this case, the locum must bill under the fully licensed physician number and appropriate locum clinic number. The Ministry of Health will make payment to the fully licensed physician, not to the locum. If a locum physician is going to be practising in Saskatchewan for more than three months, they will be assigned a unique physician billing number and be expected to bill as if fully licensed. The principal physician should ensure that the locum is advised regarding correct billing for services as the principal is legally responsible for inappropriate submissions.
    
    c) A physician who has been granted a temporary licence by the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Saskatchewan to do a conditional locum. In this case, the locum must use their own physician number and name when billing. The Ministry of Health will make payment to the locum.
    
    d) A fully licenced physician contracted through the Saskatchewan Medical Association's Rural Relief Program to provide locum services to a host clinic. In this case the locum must use their own physician number and name when billing. The Ministry of Health will make payment to the host clinic.

18. Point-of-care ultrasound (POCUS)
    An ultrasound examination provided and performed at the 'point-of-care' as an adjunct to the physical examination to identify or clarify the presence or absence (uncertainty) of a limited number of specific findings.
    
    An ultrasound examination to provide image guidance for the provision of carrying out a primary procedure.
    
    a) Is not intended as a "diagnostic" ultrasound.
    
    b) Is considered a different examination than a comprehensive or limited sonographic evaluation.
    
    c) Is considered an inclusion in a visit service or primary procedure and it is not billable as a separate ultrasound service code.
    
    d) Should be recorded in the patient record, along with the physical examination as part of a patient assessment.

19. Technical Component
    Physician costs related to providing the service, including but not limited to:
    
    a) if a technician/non-physician is involved in performing the service, the fee includes a component to cover their service;
    
    b) Amortization of cost or leasing costs of any special equipment needed to carry out the procedure (costs incurred by physician only);
    
    c) Equipment maintenance;
    
    d) Capital cost of replacement equipment;
    
    e) Expendable costs (specific to the procedure such as contrast media);
    
    f) Fixed and variable costs of the premises (space and time); and
    
    g) Production of radiographs.
    
    
    Note: For the purposes of billing a technical component, the physician should be prepared to provide documentation to the Ministry of Health demonstrating their ownership of equipment and/or employment of staff, on request.

20. Major Portion/ Part Thereof
    When submitting claims for services that state major portion or part thereof, at least half of the minimum time stated in the code must have elapsed to be payable. For example, if the code states '15 minutes or major portion thereof', the minimum time that can be spent with the patient in order to submit a claim is 7.5 minutes.
    When more than one unit is medically required, each unit except for the last one must be the full 15 minutes. The last unit must make up a major portion of the required time. For example, if the physician spent 53 minutes with the patient, three full 15-minute units have been spent, as well as, the major portion of 1 unit; therefore, a total of 4 units may be claimed. If the physician spends 50 minutes with the patient, only 3 units maybe claimed.

«L1:DOCUMENTATION REQUIREMENTS FOR THE PURPOSE OF BILLING»

«L2:Introduction»

Documentation is an integral and fundamental component of a medical service. An adequate record will enhance quality and accountability, and provide protection for the physician, the beneficiary and the Ministry.

Documentation requirements apply to both in-person and virtual care services.

For billing purposes, the physician is responsible for documenting and maintaining an adequate medical record that appropriately supports the service being provided and billed, regardless of method of reimbursement to physician (fee-for-service, contract/shadow biller, etc).

To be considered adequate, a medical record must be legible and contain the information specifically designated in the Physician Payment Schedule service codes depending on the classification of the service. The record must also establish that:

1. An insured service was provided; and
2. The service for which the account is submitted is the service that was rendered; and
3. The service was medically required.

«L2:Requirements»

Visit Services (in-person and virtual):
• All listed service code criteria must be recorded.

Time-based Services (in-person and virtual):
• In terms of a minimum required duration of time, the physician must document on the patient's record when the insured service started and ended. If the record does not include this required information, the service is not eligible for payment.

• Based upon the number of "units" of service rendered, the physician must document on the patient's record the time when the insured service started and ended. If the patient's record does not include this required information, the service is not eligible for payment.

Surgical procedures, diagnostic procedures, unclassified services, and laboratory services:
• All relevant information must be recorded, i.e., tracings, test results, discharge reports, operative reports, etc.

Time-of-Day Premiums and Special Call Surcharges:
• Based on the time of day the insured service was provided, the time and location of service must be documented in the record. If the patient's record does not include this required information, the service is not eligible for payment.

• MSB may also request documentation to establish that the physician was not in the same facility, hospital, etc. when the call was requested/initiated.

«L1:SERVICES BILLABLE BY ENTITLEMENT OR BY APPROVAL»

«L2:Introduction»

In order for a physician to commence billing for a service which is stated "by entitlement" or "approval" is required by the Saskatchewan Medical Association (SMA), prior approval must be sought, approved and received by the Medical Services Branch

a) The effective date is the date the request was approved by the SMA.

b) The effective date cannot pre-date the original request by the physician.

c) a) If the effective date is older than 6 months when received by MSB, any billable service dates cannot exceed 6 months.

   Accounts for insured services must be received by the Ministry of Health within six (6) months following the date of service to be eligible for payment under The Saskatchewan Medical Care Insurance Act.

«L2:Requirements»

MSB requires that the following information be provided by the SMA:

1. Proof of request;

2. Proof of approval with the date that the approval was granted to the physician by the SMA, CPSS or SHA; and

3. Copies of all pertinent documents pertaining to the physician's credentials that support the approval.

«L1:ASSESSMENT RULES»

«L2:Introduction»

1. Claims for insured services submitted by any mode of billing are subject to the assessment rules – this includes both in-person and virtual care services. This applies even in the event of claims being received under different modes of billing for services to a patient on the same day.

   a) These assessment rules apply to services common to many sections of the Schedule (e.g. visits and consultations).

   b) Other rules are listed in the specialty sections.

   c) Assessment rules applying to services listed in only one section of the Schedule are listed as an introduction to the services:

   Section A -- special call services;
   Section H -- anesthesia, intensive care;
   Section J -- surgical assistance;
   Section M -- fractures, dislocations;
   Section N -- microvascular surgery;
   Section P -- obstetrics;
   Section S -- refractions;
   Section T -- otolaryngology;
   Section V -- laboratory medicine;
   Section W -- diagnostic ultrasound;
   Section X -- radiology, clinical procedures.

2. The relationship of the current service to prior or subsequent services may result in payment at an amount which differs from the payment listed in the Payment Schedule.

3. A previous payment may be adjusted due to the subsequent submission of a claim for a related service.

4. Where a claim is returned or the payment is different from the amount billed, an explanatory code, of two letters e.g. "JO", is used to indicate the reason. A list of the explanatory codes is to be found at the end of this section under the heading "Explanatory Codes".

5. When a request is made for an explanation or an outline of circumstances in order to assess a claim, the Ministry of Health shall determine whether the explanation is acceptable.

6. No payment is made for a report or other information required to assess or review an account.

7. When the words "by report" are shown rather than a specific rate of payment, "by report" means that the claim must be accompanied by a detailed explanation of the circumstances and the services provided. Payment will be assessed on the basis of the explanation.

«L2:Visit Services»

The assessment rules regarding visit services are applicable to both in-person and virtual care services.

1. A visit service includes the assessment of one or more conditions during the same patient contact wherever the patient may be at the time the service is rendered.

2. Any claim submitted for a second visit on the same date of service by either the same physician or another in the same clinic and specialty should state the reason for the second visit, the time, location and service provided.

3. The rates of payment for visit services including consultations are those listed in the specialty of the physician providing the service - unless otherwise specified.

4. A special call or emergency visit by the same physician or another physician in the same specialty and clinic billed during a period of in-patient care requires an outline of the circumstances for the visit.

5. A visit billed with other services is assessed in accordance with the rules listed under "Multiple Services -- General Assessment Rules".

6. The rules for consultations; item (6) (rules a-g) also apply to visits.

«L2:Hospital Care»

1. The claim must show the number of days of hospital care from the day of admission to the day of discharge. Payment is inclusive of all visits. An additional payment may be made for visits made on statutory holidays and weekends - see service codes 700A and 701A.

2. Payment will be made as if hospitalization had been continuous when a patient is transferred during the same admission to either a specialist in the same specialty or a general practitioner.

   When a patient is readmitted to a hospital in the same locale within 14 days after discharge for continued treatment of the same or related condition, by the same physician, or another physician in the same clinic, payment will be made at the initial hospital care rate provided that the word "Readmission" is indicated on the claim.

   When a patient is transferred from ICU to a general medical ward, and at the same time from one physician to another, payment will be made at the initial hospital care rate provided that the words "ICU Transfer" are indicated on the claim.

3. Payment for concurrent hospital care by more than one physician may be approved only after the Ministry of Health is provided with a satisfactory explanation that care by more than one physician was required.

4. Hospital care billed with other services is assessed in accordance with the rules listed under "Multiple Services -- General Assessment Rules".

5. Hospital care (25B-T) is payable on day of admission to hospital.

   a) Billing for patients in health centres – Patients who are admitted to a health centre for short-term acute care may be billed as 25B in the same manner as an acute care hospital. Physicians may not use this option to cover new admissions to the long-term care section of the health centre.

   b) The hospital discharge code (725A) may be billed once per patient discharge for formally admitted hospital in-patients to the physician responsible for discharging the patient. The discharge summary should be billed on the date of discharge with a location of service "2" (inpatient).

«L2:Consultations»

The assessment rules regarding consultation services are applicable to both in-person and virtual care services, unless otherwise stated under the heading "Virtual Care Services".

1. The rates of payment for consultation services are those listed in the specialty of the physician providing the services.

2. This service applies where a physician, having examined the patient, formally requests the opinion and advice of another physician because of the complexity, obscurity or seriousness of the current condition or conditions involved.

3. The consultation includes all visits necessary, history and examination (except in the case of virtual care consultations where a physician examination is not required), review of laboratory and/or other data and written submission of the consultant's opinion and recommendations to the referring physician.

4. A consultant may take more than one visit to make a proper diagnosis, but only one payment is made.

5. Repeat Consultation -- a formal consultation for the same or related condition repeated within 90 days by the same physician. Repeat consultation, service code '11' is only to be billed when it is generated by a new formal request by the referring physician. It should not be used for routine follow-up of the patient for which follow-up assessments, partial assessments or subsequent visits would be appropriate (either virtual or in-person).

6. When, for either the same or related condition, a physician provides:

   a) a consultation on the same day or within 90 days prior to or 90 days after another consultation by the same physician, the second consultation will be converted to a repeat consultation;

   b) a consultation on the same day or within 42 days after a complete/initial assessment, the consultation will be converted to a partial/follow-up assessment;

   c) a complete/initial assessment on the same day or within 42 days after a consultation, the complete/initial assessment will be converted to a partial/follow-up assessment;

   d) a consultation on the same day or within 42 days after a partial/follow-up assessment, the consultation will be converted to a complete/initial assessment;

   e) a complete/initial assessment on the same day or within 42 days after a repeat or minor consultation, the complete/initial assessment will be converted to a partial/follow-up assessment;

   f) a consultation on the same day or within 42 days after a repeat consultation will be converted to a repeat consultation;

   g) a complete/initial assessment on the same day or within 42 days prior to or 42 days after another complete/initial assessment, then the second complete or initial assessment will be converted to a partial/follow-up assessment.

   Note: Rule (g) does not apply to general practitioners.

7. When for a different condition a physician provides a consultation on the same day or within 90 days prior to or 90 days after another consultation, by the same physician, the second consultation will be converted to a complete/initial assessment.

8. A consultation billed with other services is assessed according to the rules listed under "Multiple Services -- General Assessment Rules".

9. For patients whose chronic medical conditions require a comprehensive annual review with advice back to the referring physician, it is acceptable to bill a consultation code without a formal re-referral in the following circumstances:

   a) The patient was originally referred to the consultant for this condition;

   b) The patient's medical condition requires annual review;

   c) One year has elapsed since the last patient visit (consultation or other visit service);

   d) The original referring physician is still the patient's family physician and is still in practice in Saskatchewan;

   e) A consultation note is sent to the original referring physician.

«L2:Virtual Care Services»

All existing assessment rules are applicable to virtual care service codes unless otherwise indicated below.

The provision of medical services via telephone and secure video are intended to align with existing policies and standards such as the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Saskatchewan's Virtual Care policy. This includes all other applicable policies and guidelines, which can be found here:

Policies Tab Landing Page (cps.sk.ca)

1. Virtual care is an interaction between patients and/or members of their circle of care, occurring remotely, using telephone or secure videoconferencing with the aim of facilitating or maximizing the quality and effectiveness of patient care. Remotely, for the purpose of virtual care codes only, is defined as without physical contact and does not necessarily involve long distances (unless explicitly stated in each service description).

2. Virtual care service codes are EMR eligible where applicable (i.e. consistent with existing in-person visit service codes). The 875A service code (Limited virtual care visit) is not EMR eligible.

3. Virtual care service codes are billable by Saskatchewan licensed physicians when both the physician and Saskatchewan beneficiary are located in Saskatchewan at the time the virtual care service is provided. 875A (Limited virtual care visit) may be billed by Saskatchewan physicians and/or Saskatchewan virtual care only clinics that do not provide any in-person services.

   a) Virtual care only clinics are virtual care clinics that do not provide in-person physician services.

   b) The Limited virtual care visit service code is payable to physicians providing episodic care initiated by a patient via secure videoconferencing through a virtual care clinic that does not provide in-person physician services.

   c) The Limited virtual care visit service code recognizes that physicians working in virtual care only clinics may be providing a patient-initiated single encounter episodic visit.

4. Unless stated otherwise, virtual care services are not restricted by location within Saskatchewan; i.e., patient and physician may be located anywhere in Saskatchewan. Both the physician and patient must be located in Saskatchewan at the time the service is provided.

5. Virtual care services are not billable to out-of-province residents or reciprocally by out-of-province physicians. Physicians wishing to provide a virtual care service(s) to an out-of-province resident are advised to contact the resident's home province to confirm payment.

6. Virtual care services are not payable to physicians who are concurrently working under salary, service contract, APP or sessional arrangements (i.e. no duplication of payments). Physicians who are compensated by an alternate payment plan (APP), or directly by the Saskatchewan Health Authority (SHA) are permitted to "shadow bill" these services, but no payment will be eligible.

7. Virtual care services are payable to a maximum of 3,000 virtual care services per physician per calendar year (i.e. total sum of telephone and video visits, including limited virtual care visits (875A), cannot exceed 3,000 per physician per year, and the total number of limited virtual care visit services (875A) cannot exceed 1,500 per physician per year). Note: For time-based virtual care service codes, only the base service code will count towards the annual service count limit.

8. Virtual care services must be medically required and all time requirements are for direct physician-patient interaction in real time.

Looking at pages 21-30 of the Saskatchewan Payment Schedule, I can see this content covers Assessment Rules and General Information sections. Here is the tagged version:

--- Page 21 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 21


«L1:ASSESSMENT RULES»

9. 
Virtual care services must be direct physician-to-patient contact in real time.  

a) Time spent on indirect or administrative tasks cannot be claimed.   


b) Virtual cares services are not payable for: 
 notification of normal test results, or  
 notification of office, referral or other appointments, or 
 "triaging" of patients, or  
 any other administrative tasks. 

c) For further clarity, the following time cannot be claimed via virtual care service codes: 

 Telephone calls to/from patients in an acute care setting;  
 phone calls to request/obtain sick notes;  
 form completions and other third-party requests;  
 phone calls to obtain or provide updates on behalf of the patient related to 
referrals/tests/procedures;  
 for consultations with other providers (physicians, allied health care professionals) on 
behalf/request of the patient. 
10. 
When a medically required assessment is provided on behalf of a patient to the patient's 
parent/caregiver, communication regarding diagnosis, treatment and follow-up is considered part of the 
assessment that is to be billed under the HSN of the patient. 
11. 
Unless indicated otherwise, virtual care services can be initiated by physician or patient. Service must be 
medically required and fulfil all the requirements of the virtual service code in order to be eligible for 
payment.  

Physician initiated check-in communication with patient is not eligible. 
12. 
Virtual care services cannot be delegated by the physician to a non-physician. 
13. 
Unless indicated otherwise, virtual care services which are payable when provided by a physician is also 
payable in certain instances when provided under the supervision of a physician.  See criteria under the 
heading "Services Supervised by a Physician".  Payments can be made to the physician when supervised 
services are provided by: 

a) a person during the period of registration on the educational register of the College of 
Physicians and Surgeons as an intern, a resident, an undergraduate junior rotating intern (JURSI) 
or as a person taking other postgraduate training in Saskatchewan as a physician, where that 
service is provided as part of the course of training being taken; and, 

b) the supervising physician is able to intervene promptly if necessary. Billings must include the 
comment: "supervision of medical learner". 
14. 
Multiple virtual care services (telephone or video) cannot be billed by the same physician or a physician 
from the same clinic, for the same patient on the same day.  

If, due to extenuating circumstances, more than one virtual care service is medically required (e.g., a 
change in medical condition requiring reassessment), payment will be considered when a physician 
provides details. As per standard visit rules under the heading "Visit Services" item (2). 

a) Any claim submitted for a second visit on the same date of service by either the same physician 
or another in the same clinic and specialty should state the reason for the second visit, the time, 
location and service provided.  

--- Page 22 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 22

ASSESSMENT RULES 

b) Explanatory Code DA - Only one visit type service is approved during a single patient contact. If 
there were 2 separate patient contacts, please resubmit with the reason and time of the second 
visit.  


15. 
Services requiring physical in-person examination are not eligible for payment under virtual care codes. 
If during the course of a virtual visit it becomes apparent that an in-person visit is necessary, only the 
higher in-person service code is payable. 
16. 
Unless indicated otherwise, no billings for any combination of in-person or virtual care service codes may 
exceed the individual service code billing limits/maximum units listed.  
17. 
Unless indicated otherwise, virtual care services are not eligible for any premiums or surcharges. 
18. 
Virtual care services may not be claimed for services payable under Monitoring Anticoagulant Therapy 
(763A), Monitoring Diabetic Patients on Insulin (764A-768A), Monitoring Home Parenteral Antimicrobial 
Intravenous Therapy (770A), monthly stipend for Overseeing Hepatitis C Treatment (57B), monthly 
stipend for Overseeing Methadone/Suboxone Management (60B-62B), or Special Care Home 
Management (627A/628A). 
19. 
Secure videoconferencing must be provided on a secure platform that is compliant with The Health 
Information Privacy Act. The Saskatchewan EMR Program has released a Virtual Care Quick Start Guide 
to support physicians in providing virtual consultations during the COVID-19 pandemic. Please visit 
https://www.emr.sma.sk.ca/pages/virtual_care.html for more information. 
20. 
Physicians are responsible to ensure appropriate documentation (that must include start and stop times 
for time-based codes) as per "Documentation Requirements for the Purposes of Billing." 


«L2:Procedures»
1. 
General classification of procedures (See also Multiple Services - General Assessment Rules) 

D Diagnostic – none; 

0 Day surgery - includes the day of the procedure; 

10 Day surgery - includes the day of and 10 days following the procedure; 

42 Day surgery - includes the day of and 42 days following the procedure. 
2. 
No payment is made for the technical component when the procedure is provided in a hospital, 
inpatient or outpatient, or any other facility funded by the Ministry of Health. 
3. 
At the time of surgery or when performed under the same Anesthetic as the surgery, by the 
surgeon or the surgical team, the following services are included within the composite payment for 
the procedure: 

a) Tray service -- [to include the provision of cotton swabs, customary antiseptic solution, gloves 
– clean or sterile, necessary instruments, suture materials, dressings, syringes and needles] - 
except for in-office procedures listed under the description of codes 897L or 899L; 

b) The application of any fixation appliances, casts, splints or dressings; 

c) Regional anesthesia; 

d) Cardiac massage -- external or through the same incisions; 

--- Page 23 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 23

ASSESSMENT RULES 


e) The separation of adhesions; 

f) Laparotomy when not the primary abdominal procedure; 

g) Appendectomy when performed in addition to another intra-abdominal procedure and where 
not clinically indicated (ie. "en passant"), even if performed by a different surgeon; 

h) Provision of ring block, local infiltration and topical or spray anesthetics by any physician. 
4. 
When provided by the same physician, a general practitioner in the same clinic, or a specialist in the 
same specialty and clinic, the following services are included within the composite payment for the 
procedure: 

a) the control of hemorrhage within twenty-four hours of surgery unless specifically exempted 
e.g. 147T, 46R; 

b) the application of any fixation appliances, splints or dressings at the time of surgery or during 
the designated post-operative period; 

c) the application of casts at the time of surgery or during the period prior to hospital discharge.  
The reapplication of a cast on the day of surgery is not payable. 
5. 
The two days of pre-operative care in hospital are included in the payment for a "10" or "42" Day 
procedure when provided by the same physician or another physician in the same specialty and 
clinic. 
6. 
Multiple procedures are assessed in accordance with the rules listed under "Multiple Services -- 
General Assessment Rules". 

--- Page 24 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 24

«L1:MULTIPLE SERVICES -- GENERAL ASSESSMENT RULES»

These assessment rules apply: 

When this service is: 
Is billed with one or more 
Same day: 
Post-Procedure 
Visit or consultation 
(both in-person and 
virtual) 
Diagnostic 
1 
 
0-Day 
1,2 
 
10-Day 
2 
4 
42-Day 
3 
4 
Hospital Care 
Diagnostic 
1 
 
0-Day 
1,2 
 
10-Day 
2 
4 
42-Day 
3 
4 
Diagnostic 
Diagnostic 
5 
9 
0-Day 
 
 
10-Day 
 
7 
42-Day 
6 
7 
0 Day 
0-Day 
8 
9,10 
10-Day 
8 
10 
42-Day 
8 
10 
10 Day 
10-Day 
8 
9,10 
42-Day 
8 
10 
42 Day 
 
42-Day 
 
8 
9,10 
                                                                                                                  
Note:    Multiple procedures on the same day are all assessed with the assessment rules for the procedure 
with the longest post-operative period. 



Examples: 


1. 
A visit and "0" day procedure provided on the same day are assessed with Rules 1 and 2. 


2. 
A visit, a "10" day and a "42" day procedure provided on the same day are assessed with Rules 3 
and 8 (not Rule 2). 


3. 
A "0" day, a "10" day and a "42" day procedure provided on the same day are assessed with Rule 8. 

--- Page 25 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 25

MULTIPLE SERVICES -- GENERAL ASSESSMENT RULES 

THE FOLLOWING RULES APPLY TO THE SAME PHYSICIAN (OR ANOTHER PHYSICIAN IN THE SAME 
SPECIALTY AND CLINIC) UNLESS OTHERWISE INDICATED WITHIN THE RULE. 



Note:  A visit service can be both an in-person or virtual care service.  


1. When a visit (including hospital care) or consultation is billed for the same day in addition to a 
service listed as "includes visit", "included in visit", "when only procedure done", or "when only 
charge made", only the greater listed amount is paid. 
2. A visit (including hospital care) or consultation on the day of a "0" or "10" Day procedure is paid at 
the greater of: 

a) the procedure alone; or 

b) the total of the visit (hospital care, consultation, or other) together with the procedure paid at 
75% of the appropriate listed amount. 
 Procedures with possible unit values are paid at the listed fee. 
3. A visit (including hospital care) or consultation on the day of a "42" Day procedure is included in 
the payment for the procedure when provided by the same physician or another physician in the 
same specialty and clinic (or part of the surgical team). 

Notwithstanding the above: 

a) when a physician admits a patient to hospital for urgent surgery on an emergency basis and 
later on the same day provides surgical assistant services to the surgeon to whom the case 
has been referred, then both the visit and surgical assistant services will be paid; 

b) the surgeon may be paid for a consultation on the same day as a 42-day procedure when that 
consultation initiates the surgery and is the first patient contact; 

c) when a surgeon provides elective surgery for a patient not seen in the preceding 30 days, 
then both the surgical procedure(s) (42-day procedures only) and a partial or follow-up 
assessment will be paid if provided (a complete assessment will not be paid). 
4. Hospital care (including other hospital inpatient visits) during the designated post-operative period 
of a related "10" or "42" day procedure is included in the payment for the procedure when 
provided by the same physician, a general practitioner in the same clinic, or a specialist in the same 
specialty and clinic.  Visits after the discharge of the patient may be billed 
5. Payment for a diagnostic procedure done bilaterally on the same day is based on the payment for 
the single procedure plus 75% unless otherwise listed. 
6.  A diagnostic procedure performed on the day of a 42-day procedure by the same physician or 
another physician in the same specialty and clinic (or part of the surgical team) is paid at 75% of the 
appropriate listed amount, unless included in the composite payment for the procedure, or unless 
the diagnostic procedure is the greater fee. If the diagnostic procedure is a greater value than the 
42 day procedure, the diagnostic procedure will be paid at 100% and the 42-day procedure at 75%. 
7. A diagnostic procedure performed by the same physician, a general practitioner in the same clinic, 
or a specialist in the same specialty and clinic within the post-operative period of a related "10" or 
"42" day procedure is paid at 75% of the appropriate listed amount. 

--- Page 26 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 26

MULTIPLE SERVICES -- GENERAL ASSESSMENT RULES 

8. Payment for two or more "0", "10" or 42" Day procedures performed on the same day by the same 
physician or another physician in the same specialty and clinic (or part of the surgical team) is based 
on the higher procedure at 100% and all others at 75% of the appropriate listed amount, unless: 

a) payment for the lesser procedure is included in the composite payment for one of the other 
procedures; or 

b) the Payment Schedule: 

i. lists a composite payment for the procedure(s) performed; or 

ii. designates that the listing for the second procedure is to be paid when it is the only 
procedure performed; or 

iii. lists a specific payment for additional procedures; or 

iv. lists a specific payment for surgeons in different specialties. 
  
9. Where two similar unilateral procedures are performed during the same hospital admission and a 
bilateral payment is listed in the Payment Schedule, payment is based on the bilateral listing. 
10. A subsequent "0", "10" or "42" Day procedure within the designated post-operative of a related 
procedure is paid at 75% of the appropriate listed amount, unless the Payment Schedule stipulates 
otherwise. 






--- Page 27 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 27

«L1:GENERAL  INFORMATION»


«L2:Services Supervised By A Physician»


A service which is insured by the Ministry of Health when provided by a physician is also insured when 
provided under the supervision of a physician. Payments can be made to the physician for this supervision 
as long as the physician is available to intervene promptly if necessary.  Supervised services are provided 
by: 
1. 
A person during the period of registration on the educational register of the College of Physicians 
and Surgeons of Saskatchewan as an intern, a resident, an undergraduate junior rotating intern 
(JURSI) or as a person taking other postgraduate training in Saskatchewan as a physician, where that 
service is provided as part of the course of training being taken; 
2. 
Another physician providing the service as part of a course of instruction being administered by the 
College of Medicine of the University of Saskatchewan and where that physician does not charge for 
the service; 
3. 
A person employed by a physician in the physician's office and for whose work the physician 
assumes overall responsibility and provides intermittent daily personal supervision, and the service 
is: 

a) a laboratory service (V section codes); 
b) a diagnostic X-ray procedure (X section codes); 
c) a diagnostic procedure involving a tracing (including, but not limited to, W section codes, 
ECGs, spirometries, echocardiograms, etc); 
d) an intramuscular, intradermal, or subcutaneous injection (including, but not limited to 110A, 
131A, 161A, etc); 
e) a specimen collection (204A, 205A, 206A); 
4. 
A person in training as a health care worker under the supervision of the physician for a specific 
procedure and the worker does not have privileges through either independent licensure or 
transfer of function to independently perform the procedure (e.g. advanced clinical nurse, 
respiratory technologist); 
5. 
A person employed by a physician whose practice is restricted to dermatology may provide 
ultraviolet B therapy when the physician assumes overall responsibility and provides intermittent 
daily personal supervision. 

Payment for a supervised service may only be made to the physician providing the supervision. 

--- Page 28 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 28

GENERAL  INFORMATION 
«L2:Submission of Accounts»


1. 
Time Limit for Submission of Accounts 

Accounts for insured services must be received by the Ministry of Health within six (6) months 
following the date of service to be eligible for payment under The Saskatchewan Medical Care 
Insurance Act. 

The six months' time limit may be extended to twelve (12) months by the Ministry of Health if it is 
determined that the delay was caused by very special circumstances beyond your control.  Claims 
returned to the physician should be corrected and sent back to Medical Services Branch within 30 
days; this will be strictly enforced once a claim becomes five (5) months old. 

The time limit applies to all persons submitting accounts to the Ministry of Health. 

In cases where beneficiaries are billed directly, The Saskatchewan Medical Care Insurance Act 
requires that they be provided with an itemized statement within six (6) months following the 
date of service to enable them to claim payment from the Ministry of Health. If a physician does 
not provide the statement in time then the right to collect the account is lost. As long as the 
beneficiary is provided with a statement of account in time, the Act does not place any restriction 
upon the physician's right to collect the account. 


2. 
Claim Submission: 


a) Automated Submission - Claims must be submitted via the Internet.  Contact Operations 
Support for further information and assistance 

b) Required information - Payment for insured services provided to a beneficiary may be made by 
the Ministry of Health upon an account being presented, containing the following information: 



-- patient's name in full; 

-- patient's Health Services Number (HSN); 

-- patient's month and year of birth, and sex; 

-- location of service:  office, hospital inpatient, hospital outpatient, home, other; 


-- three-digit ICD diagnostic code; 

-- where service is provided in Saskatchewan, service code corresponding to procedure or 
treatment performed; 

-- where service is provided outside Saskatchewan, the service may be submitted to the 
physician's own provincial plan for direct reimbursement where such arrangements exist.  
For services received in Quebec, a description of the procedure or treatment provided; 

-- date of each service, except that, with respect to hospital visits, only the dates of the first 
and last visits and the total number of visits need be shown; 

-- amount charged for each service provided; 

-- additional remarks if nature of service was unusual; 

-- name and signature (not required if claim is submitted by computer) of person providing 
service; 

-- four-digit referring physician number where applicable. 

--- Page 29 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 29

GENERAL  INFORMATION 
c) Out-of-Province Patients 

A physician providing non-excluded insured services to a patient from another province or 
territory of Canada with the exception of Quebec, must submit their claim to the Ministry of 
Health in the usual manner indicating the patient's identification and in the form of account noted 
above and submit that account to the Ministry of Health directly for reimbursement. 


3. 
Modes of Billing Accounts 

A physician has two billing options.  Accounts can be submitted: 

a) Billing Direct to the Ministry of Health (Mode 1) – Fee-for-service 


If a physician wishes to send accounts direct to the Ministry of Health for payment, then 
the physician is required to sign an agreement with the Ministry of Health.  The agreement 
may be cancelled by either party giving one month's notice of termination. 


Even though a physician enters into an agreement with the Ministry of Health, the other 
billing option remains open in certain circumstances. When a physician leaves 
Saskatchewan all direct deposit agreements terminate immediately and all outstanding 
payments will be paid by cheque mailed to the current correspondence address.  Please 
ensure you provide a forwarding address to Medical Services Branch so cheques do not go 
astray. 



b) Billing the Patient (Mode 3) 


i. a physician shall not knowingly charge a beneficiary an amount greater than that 
paid by the Ministry of Health for an insured service. 


ii. a specialist shall not charge a beneficiary the difference in amount between that 
payable by the Ministry of Health for a referred service and an unreferred service. 


You may bill your patient for uninsured services, or if the patient does not provide proof of 
coverage, etc.  Payment of your account is the sole responsibility of the patient who may 
obtain the benefit of his medical care insurance by submitting their itemized account to 
the Ministry of Health. 


The required information for payment must be provided to the beneficiary so that they 
may claim the medical care insurance benefit.   


The Saskatchewan Medical Care Insurance Act states, in part, that: 

….the physician shall not submit an account for payment to or otherwise demand or accept 
payment from the beneficiary for providing an insured service to the beneficiary or 
dependent of the beneficiary until he has first furnished the beneficiary with the 
information required to enable the Minister to make payment under this Act to the 
beneficiary in respect of the insured service. 

--- Page 30 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 30

GENERAL  INFORMATION 

4.  Location of Service Indicators 

Day of Week: 
Weekdays 
Weekdays Weekends & Stat Holidays 
Any day 
Time: 
7 am – 5pm 
 
Weekdays: 
7 pm – 7 am 
 
Weekends & Stats: 
Anytime 
Weekdays: 
5 pm – 12 am 
 
Weekends & Stats: 
5pm – 12 am Friday 
7 am – 12 am Saturday/Sunday & 
Stat Holidays 
12 am - 7 am 
 
No premium 
10% 
50% 
100% 
Office   
Indicator: 
1 
F 
1 (no premium) 
1 (no premium) 
Inpatient 
Indicator: 
2 
Office only 
B 
K 
Outpatient 
Indicator: 
3 
Office only 
C 
M 
Home 
Indicator: 
4 
Office only 
D 
P 
Other 
Indicator: 
5 
Office only 
E 
T 
ER  
Indicator: 
9 
Office only 
9 (no premium) 
9 (no premium) 

Example:  Inpatient service on Saturday at 7 pm would be indicator "B" (50%). 
Example:  Home service on Wednesday at 3 pm would be indicator "4" (no premium). 
  
«L2:Practise Entirely Outside the Medical Care Plan»
A physician may practise entirely outside the plan conditional upon: 
1. 
The physician practises entirely outside the medical care plan for all patients and for all services, and 
2. 
Access to insured services is not jeopardized, and 
3. 
Prior to providing a service, the physician advises the patient that the service is not insured and the 
patient is not entitled to payment from the Ministry of Health and the patient agrees to such an 
arrangement. 
«L2:Special Contracts -- Services Provided on a Group Basis»
Services provided by a physician on a group basis, in a school, hall, auditorium, or other place of assembly 
or for the purpose of diagnostic screening or immunization, are not insured unless the Ministry of Health 
has been notified prior to the services being rendered and an agreement entered into between the 
Ministry of Health and the physician. 
The agreement shall state the rate of payment and arrangements for the submission of claims. 
«L2:Cancer Services»
Cancer services are insured by the Ministry of Health.  Physicians have an obligation to register cancer 
patients with the Saskatchewan Cancer Agency.

Looking at these 10 pages of content, I can see this is from the General Information section at the beginning of the Saskatchewan Payment Schedule. This section contains procedural and administrative information rather than billable services, so there are no billing codes to tag. However, there are some structural elements that should be tagged according to the instructions.

Here is the tagged content:

--- Page 31 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 

April 1, 2024 


Page 31

«L1:GENERAL INFORMATION»
«L2:Patient Identification»


A plastic Health Services Card is issued to identify registered beneficiaries of The Saskatchewan Medical Care Insurance Act.


The card shows a Saskatchewan resident's lifetime 9-digit Health Services Number, name, sex, month and year of birth, effective date and expiry date of coverage.  An individual card facilitates accurate patient identification that is essential to the timely processing of accounts.  Patients should be asked to produce a current Health Services Card at the time of each service.

Residents who are members of the Canadian Forces and inmates of the Federal Penitentiaries are not provided with health care coverage by the Ministry of Health. Their spouses and dependants, residents in Saskatchewan, must be registered for coverage.


If the Health Services Number (HSN) is not available for the newborn, submit the claim with the mother's HSN and the newborn's identification data.  The mother's name should be indicated in the comments record of the direct input claim or in the remarks area of a paper claim.  If the mother has recently moved, the address should be indicated.

«L2:Temporary Health Coverage Forms (THC)»


Residents who qualify under the Saskatchewan Assistance Plan for temporary health coverage are issued a Temporary Health Coverage form.


THC forms may reflect limited health coverage from one day to a maximum of two weeks.  The Ministry of Social Services electronically submits the THC nomination to the Ministry of Health to register the client for a Saskatchewan Health Services Number for the period of the THC.


A THC nomination electronically generates a supplementary health letter that denotes the HSN for the period of the THC.  No Plastic Health Card is issued until the client completes a Saskatchewan Health Services Card application.


--- Page 32 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 

April 1, 2024 


Page 32

«L1:SERVICES NOT INSURED BY THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH»


1. Workers' Compensation Board (WCB)
 The Ministry of Health does not insure services required as a result of industrial accidents. Send accounts for those services to:
  
Workers' Compensation Board

Suite 200 - 1881 Scarth Street,

Regina, Saskatchewan  S4P 4L1
 Accounts received by the Ministry of Health and identified as being Workers' Compensation Board responsibility because of prior WCB registration are processed at $0.00 on the physician's payment list with explanatory code CW. Payment for accounts under these circumstances can only be obtained by forwarding an account to WCB who will either pay the account or send it back to the physician for resubmission to the Ministry of Health.
2. Department of Veterans' Affairs (DVA) Pensionable Disability
 The Ministry of Health does not cover services for the treatment of a condition related to a Department of Veterans' Affairs pensionable disability. Send accounts for these services to:

Department of Veterans' Affairs
Treatment Benefit Unit
Box 6050

Winnipeg, Manitoba  R3C 4G5
 Accounts received by the Ministry of Health and identified as being the responsibility of the Department of Veterans' Affairs because of a previous DVA registration are processed at $0.00 on the physician's payment list with explanatory code CH.  Payment for these accounts can only be made by the Department of Veterans' Affairs to whom the account should be submitted on claim form VAC 147.  DVA will either pay the account or refer it back to the Ministry of Health for payment in the event that coverage is not available through their program for the service(s) provided.
3. Saskatchewan Government Insurance (SGI) - Motor Vehicle Accidents
 The Ministry of Health provides coverage of insured services required as a result of motor vehicle accidents.  However, where third party liability is involved, the Ministry of Health recovers monies from Saskatchewan Government Insurance for the cost of medical services provided.  Where a person is entitled to Accident Benefits provided by The Automobile Accident Insurance Act, SGI may accept responsibility for costs incurred by the beneficiary for services not insured under the Medical Care Insurance Plan or the Hospital Services Plan, e.g. ambulance services, certain drugs, and appliances.
4. General anesthesia for dental procedures outside hospital other than by a specialist in anesthesia.
5. Drugs and dressings
6. Ambulance services or other forms of transportation of patient.
7. Appliances, such as eyeglasses, hearing aids, artificial limbs, cardiac pacemakers or artificial heart valves.


--- Page 33 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 

April 1, 2024 


Page 33

SERVICES NOT INSURED BY THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH

8. Advice by telephone with the exception of telephone calls from allied health care personnel physicians, dentists, optometrists and chiropractors are not considered allied health care personnel) (see service codes 70A, 762A-769A and 790A-795A, 796A-797A).
9. Examinations or services to provide a medical report or certificate required for the information of a third party, (except for adoption purposes, a person becoming a foster parent, cases regarding rape or child abuse and certification of mental ill health under The Mental Health Services Act), e.g.  
 Attendance at camps; YMCA, YWCA, etc.
Autopsies

Certification or decertification for mental incompetence
Daycare/childcare facility
Employment
Employment Insurance Program   
Insurance purposes
Judicial purposes
Motor vehicle or other licence
Participation in sports
Passport or visa
University or private school entrance
Vehicle seat belt exemption
10. 
Immunization services available under Ministry of Health programs and immunizations for the provision of travel, employment, insurance, emigration, or at the request of any third party.
11. 
Group examinations or diagnostic services, e.g. refractions, arranged by school unless an agreement has been entered into with the Ministry of Health prior to the services being rendered.
12. 
Plastic or other surgery for cosmetic purposes, e.g. liposuction.
13. 
Services for: reversals of sterilization; electrolysis; anesthesia for uninsured dental procedures, except where the person is under 14 years of age and for the above uninsured surgical procedures.
14. 
Autopsy.
15. 
Travelling expenses incurred by practitioners.
16. 
Procedures in the experimental/developmental phase.
17. 
Special duty nurse services.
18. 
Post-gastroplasty redundant skin fold removal (thigh and bat wing).
19. 
"Meet and greet" visits:  the first contact with a new patient may occur at a visit which some refer to as a meet-and-greet visit. The physician may use this visit to identify the patient's needs and expectations, take a medical history, and/or disclose information about their knowledge, skills, and limitations of practice, along with the organization of their practice, such as the mode of after-hours operation. The meet-and-greet visit is not an insurable service and the visit should not be used to provide medical services. Also see the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Saskatchewan's guidelines "Establishing a Patient-Physician Relationship".
20. 
Pre-departure travel medicine services rendered solely for the purpose of travel. This includes assessments, counselling or administration of vaccines.


--- Page 34 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 

April 1, 2024 


Page 34

SERVICES NOT INSURED BY THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH

21. Ultrasound for non-medical reasons:  Physicians must ensure that all diagnostic imaging examinations are ordered and conducted for appropriate clinical indications.  Uninsured examples include, but are not limited to:

• 
Maternal reassurance or supportive care in the case of obstetric ultrasounds;
• 
Obtaining views of the fetus for the purposes of a picture or video;
• 
Determining gender of the fetus; or
• 
Any circumstances not clinically indicated, medically required, or relevant to the diagnosis or treatment of the patient, or both.

Ultrasounds for non-medical reasons such as those listed above are considered by Health Canada to be an unapproved use of a medical device.



--- Page 35 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 

April 1, 2024 


Page 35

«L1:ASSESSMENT OF ACCOUNTS»

The Ministry of Health's assessment of a claim may be determined by referring to the explanatory code in the right-hand margin of the payment statement. A review of the explanatory code, in conjunction with the Assessment Rules contained in the Payment Schedule, should enable a physician to determine the reason for a particular assessment.
If a physician does not agree with an assessment of an account and/or would like to report and request a review or correction of an account, the physician must write to Medical Services Branch as follows:


1.  
(a) 
For general reassessments and/or corrections to accounts:
Complete a Request for Review of Claims Assessment and submit it to:
Supervisor, Claims Analysis Unit
Medical Services Branch
Ministry of Health
By mail: 
By Fax: 
3475 Albert Street   
Regina, SK   S4S 6X6
306-798-0582

Request for Review of Claims Assessment forms can be found here:

https://www.ehealthsask.ca/services/resources/establish-operate-practice/Pages/Physicians.aspx




     
(b) 
For audit reassessments:
For services recovered under explanatory codes in the "Routine Audit and Recovery" Section:
Complete a Request for Information and Response Form and submit it to:
Audit Officer|Policy, Governance and Audit
Medical Services Branch
Ministry of Health
By Mail: 
By Fax: 
By Email: 
3475 Albert Street   
Regina, SK S4S 6X6
306-787-3761
MSBPaymentsandAudit@health.gov.sk.ca

Request for Information and Response Form  forms can be found at this link:

https://www.ehealthsask.ca/services/resources/establish-operate-practice/Pages/Physicians.aspx


--- Page 36 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 

April 1, 2024 


Page 36

ASSESSMENT OF ACCOUNTS

2. 
If dissatisfied with a general decision or an audit decision completed under steps (1) (a) or (1) (b), a further review may be requested by writing to:

Medical Consultant
Medical Services Branch
Ministry of Health
By mail: 
3475 Albert Street   
Regina, SK   S4S 6X6
By fax: 
306-798-0582




In order for a request by a Medical Consultant to be considered, a detailed letter directly from the physician must be submitted that includes:

a) A list of all declined/disputed services for which the physician is requesting further review; and
b) What specifically is being disputed; and
c) Rationale for the appeal; and  
d) All corresponding medical records (including any relevant/applicable referral letters and/or pathology reports).

The request will not be considered in the absence of the required information. Appeals must be submitted within 60 days of the date of the reassessment under steps (1) (a) or (1) (b).



3. 
A physician who is not satisfied with the results of the review by a Medical Consultant, may request a further review by writing to:

The Medical Assessment Board
Medical Services Branch
Ministry of Health
By mail: 
3475 Albert Street   
Regina, SK   S4S 6X6
By fax: 
306-798-0582

«L2:VERIFICATION PROGRAM»

Accounts paid by the Ministry of Health to either physicians or patients are subject to verification. This does not imply criticism of persons providing or receiving services, but assists the government in maintaining an efficient public program.  It also serves to confirm that payments are recorded, billed and paid correctly.

1. Routine Verification

Verification letters are sent to beneficiaries who are asked to complete and return them to the Ministry of Health if the details of services for which payment has been made do not correspond with the services provided.  e.g.  a service may have been billed for the wrong patient or date;

Where a beneficiary indicates disagreement with details in the verification letter, the physician is advised by letter and asked to comment upon the beneficiary's disagreement.
2. Special Verification

Under certain circumstances a special verification may be carried out on a particular range and number of services. The physician concerned, the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Saskatchewan, and the Saskatchewan Medical Association are notified at the time of any special verification.




--- Page 37 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 

April 1, 2024 


Page 37

«L1:INFORMATION SOURCES»
A.   
«L2:CLAIMS ANALYSIS UNIT»
1. 
General Inquiries
Phone: 
306-787-3475 (local)
1-800-667-7523 (toll free)


Fax: 
306-798-0582


a) Requests for claim forms and standard out-of-province forms; and
b) General information regarding in-Canada and out-of-country services.
  
2. 
Physician Claim Inquiries
Phone: 
1-800-605-2965
  
a) Diagnostic coding of claims;
b) Routine assessment of claims;
c) Inquiries regarding physician billings and payment of accounts;
d) Inquiries regarding accounts submitted more than six months after the date of service;
e) Requests for Review of Claims Assessment; reporting incorrectly billed and paid services;
f) Billing education, online billing course; and
g) Request for Review of Claims Assessment  form can be found at the following link:
 https://www.ehealthsask.ca/services/resources/establish-operate-practice/Pages/Physicians.aspx

3. 
Processing Support
Phone: 
1-800-605-2965
  
a) Inquiries regarding accounts submitted more than six months after the date of service;
b) Inquiries regarding unsuccessful internet claims submission or issues with submissions ;
c) Specifications for the internet claims submission;
d) Patient information file download;
e) Diagnostic code and service code files;
f) General handling or processing of submissions;  
g) Identity problems on returned claims; and
h) Handling of explanatory codes: AA – AR, CM, CN, CZ, YA-YS, ZA – ZS (except ZR).


4.  Physician Billing Education
Phone: 
1-800-605-2965


a) Inquiries regarding the Medical Services Branch Online Billing Course.
b) Inquiries regarding billing education support
c) Physician entitlement inquires.
d) Billing Information Sheets and MSB Claims Processing Calendar


--- Page 38 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 

April 1, 2024 


Page 38

INFORMATION SOURCES
  

B. 
«L2:MEDICAL CONSULTANTS»
Phone: 
306-787-8851


Fax: 
306-798-0582
  


a) Claims assessment support;
b) Assessment of complex claims;
c) Insurability of a service;
d) Review of assessment decisions;
e) Medical Assessment Board; and
f) Services not available in Saskatchewan or Canada – out-of-country coverage.






C.   
«L2:FINANCIAL SERVICES»
Phone:    
1-800-605-2965


Fax: 
306-787-3761


Email: 
AccountingUnitMSB@health.gov.sk.ca


a) Inquiries regarding payment information or the deposit advice.
b) Direct bank deposit information;  
c) An annual statement of payments made by the Ministry of Health to a physician can be made available at the personal request of the physician at a cost of $18.00:

• 
Prepayment is required and should accompany your request form.  
• 
Please make cheque payable to the Minister of Finance.   

Direct Deposit Payment Request  and the Physician Request for Income Statement forms can be found online at the following link:


https://www.ehealthsask.ca/services/resources/establish-operate-practice/Pages/Physicians.aspx




D. 
«L2:PHYSICIAN REGISTRY & SUPPORT SERVICES (PRSS)»
Phone:    
306-798-0013

Fax: 
306-798-1124

Email: 
prss@health.gov.sk.ca
  
a) New physician registration;
b) Notifications regarding:
1) change of physician's address;
2) entering or leaving clinic or group practice;
3) employment of locum;
4) incorporating your health care practise.
c) Medical Statements;
d) Agreement for physicians to receive payment directly from the Ministry of Health; and
e) Agreements for computer claim submissions.


--- Page 39 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 

April 1, 2024 


Page 39

INFORMATION SOURCES
  

E. 
«L2:POLICY, GOVERNANCE & AUDIT (PGA)»
Phone: 
306-787-0496


Fax: 
306-787-3761


Email: 
MSBPaymentsandAudit@health.gov.sk.ca




a) Responsible for all practitioner (physician, optometrist, dentist) professional review matters related to billing;
b) Routine practitioner audits;  
c) Verification of accounts – beneficiaries (patients) and practitioners.

Submission of information should be submitted on an Audit Request for Information and Response Form  and other audit related information can be found at the following link:

https://www.ehealthsask.ca/services/resources/establish-operate-practice/Pages/Physicians.aspx

d) 
Joint Medical Professional Review Committee (JMPRC) inquiries can be directed to:  
JMPRC@health.gov.sk.ca or billing information sheets can be accessed at the following link:   
https://www.ehealthsask.ca/services/resources/establish-operate-practice/Pages/Physicians.aspx



F. 
«L2:eHEALTH SASKATCHEWAN»
Phone:    306-337-0600 (local)
1-888-316-7446 (toll free)


Fax: 
306-781-8480


Email: 
ServiceDesk@eHealthsask.ca
  
G. 
«L2:FEE-FOR-SERVICE & STATISTICS»
Phone:   
306-787-3608


Fax: 
306-787-3761


Email: 
MSBDataRequests@health.gov.sk.ca


Mail: 
Medical Services Branch
Fee-for-Service and Statistics
3475 Albert Street REGINA SK S4S 6X6
  
 Physician profiles represent a summary of services for which the Ministry of Health has made payment to a physician and a comparison to the group average for physicians in the same type of practice.  

The Medical Services Branch prepares practitioner profiles on a fiscal year and quarterly basis.  The fiscal year begins April 1 and ends March 31 of the following year.
 a) 
Quarterly fiscal profiles are available on the following basis:
  
FIRST   -- April to June, inclusive
  
SECOND   -- July to September, inclusive
  
THIRD   -- October to December, inclusive
  
FOURTH   -- January to March, inclusive
  
  
 b) 
Annual fiscal profiles are available and cover a twelve (12) month period from April of one year to March of the following year (April 1 to March 31).  Annual profiles based on the calendar year are not available.   
  




--- Page 40 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 

April 1, 2024 


Page 40

INFORMATION SOURCES
  

G. FEE-FOR-SERVICE & STATISTICS – continued  
 c) 
Profile Costs (GST included in costs) are as follows:
  
Complete profile set 
$40.00 ($30.00 if ordered prior to June)
  
Annual profile  
$20.00
  
Individual quarterly profiles 
$5.00 per quarter  
  
• 
A complete set of profiles (four quarterly and an annual) may be obtained for a fee of $30.00 if ordered and prepaid prior to June 1 of the requested year.
  

  
• 
For requests received after June 1, the regular rates of $5.00 per quarter and $20.00 for an annual will apply.
  

  
• 
In the interest of confidentiality, physician profiles will only be provided with a signed written request by the physician
  

  
• 
When ordering, a cheque for the amount payable should accompany the form.
  

  
• 
Cheques should be made payable to the MINISTER OF FINANCE.
  

  
• 
Requests can be mailed, faxed or emailed per the contact information listed above.
  

  
• 
The Physician Profile Request form can be found online at the following link:
  

  
https://www.ehealthsask.ca/services/resources/establish-operate-practice/Pages/Physicians.aspx

**Page 41**

Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 41

«L1:RECIPROCAL MEDICAL BILLING SYSTEM FORMAT OF PROVINCIAL/TERRITORIAL HEALTH IDENTIFICATION NUMBERS & CODES»
 
Province 
Provincial Code 
Health Identification Format 
ALBERTA 
AB 
9 DIGIT NUMBER 
9 numeric individual registration 
BRITISH COLUMBIA 
BC 
10 DIGIT NUMBER 
10 numeric individual registration 
MANITOBA 
MB 
9 DIGIT NUMBER 
9 numeric individual registration 
NEWFOUNDLAND 
NF 
12 DIGIT NUMBER 
12 numeric individual registration 
NEW BRUNSWICK 
NB 
9 DIGIT NUMBER 
9 numeric individual registration 
NORTHWEST TERRITORIES 
NT 
8 DIGIT NUMBER 
One of the following ALPHA characters 
D, H, M, N or T (followed by 7 numeric) 
NOVA SCOTIA 
NS 
10 DIGIT NUMBER 
10 numeric individual registration 
NUNAVUT 
NU 
9 DIGIT NUMBER 
1 followed by 8 numeric individual registration 
ONTARIO 
ON 
10 DIGIT NUMBER 
10 numeric individual registration 
PRINCE EDWARD ISLAND 
PE 
8 DIGIT NUMBER 
8 numeric individual registration 
SASKATCHEWAN  
SK 
9 DIGIT NUMBER 
9 numeric individual registration 
YUKON  
YT 
9 DIGIT NUMBER 
9 numeric individual registration 
 
NOTE:  Spaces or "-" should never be submitted at the start or in the middle of a number. 
 
Visual examples of Insured Health Services Plan Cards for Reciprocal Billing can be found at the following 
link: 
 
https://www.ehealthsask.ca/services/resources/establish-operate-practice/Pages/Physicians.aspx 
 
 
 
 
 
 

**Page 42**

Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 42

«L1:PHYSICIAN SERVICES EXCLUDED UNDER THE INTER-PROVINCIAL AGREEMENTS FOR THE RECIPROCAL PROCESSING OF OUT-OF-PROVINCE MEDICAL CLAIMS»
 
The following services should be billed directly to the non-resident: 
 
1. Surgery for alteration of appearance (cosmetic surgery).  
2. Gender reassignment surgery.  
3. Surgery for reversal of sterilization.  
4. Routine periodic health examinations including routine eye examinations.  
5. In-vitro fertilization, artificial insemination.  
6. Lithotripsy for gallbladder stones.  
7. The treatment of port-wine stains on other than the face or neck, regardless of the modality of 
treatment.  
8. Acupuncture, acupressure, transcutaneous electro-nerve stimulation (TENS), moxibustion, 
biofeedback, hypnotherapy.  
9. Services to persons covered by other agencies:  Armed Forces, Workers' Compensation Board, 
Department of Veterans Affairs, Correctional Services of Canada (Federal penitentiaries).  
10. Services requested by a "third party" – including but not limited to: employers, educational facilities, 
insurance companies, daycares, sports organizations, motor vehicle or other licensing bodies, etc.  
11. Team conference(s).  
12. Genetic screening and other genetic investigations, including DNA probes.  
13. Procedures still in the experimental/developmental phase/clinical research.  
14. Anesthetic services and surgical assistant services associated with all of the foregoing. 
15. Dental services (not including oral surgery) when provided by a dentist. 
16. PET Scans. 
17. Gamma Knife. 
18. Telemedicine (virtual care) services. 

**Page 43**

Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 43
 
«L1:The Ministry of Health Explanatory Codes For Physicians»

«L2:INTRODUCTION»
The alphabetic code listed in the payment list or file, reject file or returned claim identifies the 
related explanation.  

«L2:PATIENT IDENTIFICATION»
AA 
Not registered--no record of this person under this number. Please recheck the patient's Health 
Services Card.  
 
 
AC 
Incorrect sex indicated on claim-Medical Services Branch (MSB) has paid this claim. Please use 
the sex shown on the Health Services Card for future claims. 
 
 
AD 
Incorrect Health Services Number indicated on claim-Medical Services Branch (MSB) has paid this 
claim. Please use the number shown on this payment file/list for future claims. 
 
 
AE 
Incorrect date of birth indicated on claim-Medical Services Branch (MSB) has paid this claim.  
Please use the birth date shown on the Health Services Card for future claims. 
 
 
AF 
Please review this claim, the Health Services Number is inconsistent with the name, sex or birth 
date on the Health Services Card.  
 
 
AG 
This claim is for a newborn (child less than one year old). The newborn may not be registered 
yet/or the patient identification data is incorrect. Please ensure the beneficiary data is correct or 
that the parents/guardians contact eHealth Registries at 1-800-667-7551 in order to have the 
newborn registered.  
 
 
AH 
Please review this claim. Our records indicate that the beneficiary registered under this number 
died prior to the date of service. 
 
 
AJ 
The services involving emergency room coverage cannot be paid as:  
1) The physician is not eligible to bill these codes;  
2) Another physician has been paid for the same time period in this community;  
3) The incorrect dummy HSN has been used for this community;  
4) An incorrect clinic has been used for this community; 
5) Another ICD code must be used for regular services provided to a beneficiary; or  
6) An incorrect service code, day of the week or amount has been used.  
 
 
AK 
The services involving clinical education by a nurse practitioner (NP) cannot be paid as: 
1) The incorrect HSN has been used for this service code (dummy HSN only); or 
2) The incorrect ICD code has been used for the service code; or 
3) The incorrect service code has been billed under this dummy HSN. 
 
 
AL 
This claim was received at the Ministry of Health prior to the date of service indicated on the 
claim.  

**Page 44**

Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 44
 
The Ministry of Health 
Explanatory Codes For Physicians 
AM 
A letter sent to this patient by eHealth Registries regarding the validation renewal stickers has 
been returned. This patient will not have coverage after January 31. When you next attend to 
this patient, please advise them to immediately contact eHealth Registries at 1-800-667-7551 or 
306-787-3251 to have their coverage updated. Please ignore this message if the patient now has 
a new expiry sticker.  
 
 
AO 
A letter sent to this patient by the Ministry of Health has been returned. Therefore, the patient's 
coverage has been terminated. On your next contact with this patient, please advise the patient 
to immediately contact eHealth Registries at 1-800-667-7551 or 306-787-3251 to have their 
coverage updated.  
 
 
AP 
The 9-digit Health Services Number is incorrect. Please recheck your files and/or the patient's 
Health Services Card.  
 
 
AQ 
This claim was previously assessed by a medical consultant based on the report received.  Please 
do not re-submit the same report.  If you wish to request a review of this decision, please submit 
the additional information, including the reasons and details of the request, on a Request for 
Review of Claims Assessment form and fax to 306-798-0582 or mail to:  Medical Consultants, 
Medical Services Branch, 3475 Albert Street  Regina SK S4S 6X6 
 
 
 
AR 
Patient not registered for coverage on this date of service. Please check the effective and expiry 
dates on the Health Services Card.  
 
If the patient is a resident, they should immediately contact eHealth Registries, by phone at 1-
800-667-7551 or 306-787-3251, 2130 11th Avenue, Regina, S4P 0J5, in order to have coverage 
updated. 

«L2:GENERAL»
AS 
Your account had to be split for processing. Payment for the listed services was approved based 
on the Ministry of Health's Payment Schedule.  
 
 
AT 
Diagnosis and Payment Schedule item are not compatible.  
 
 
AU 
To assist in the assessment of this service please submit a request for review of claims 
assessment form with a copy of the operative report, medical record or a descriptive letter.  
PLEASE NOTE:   
• If an operative report is being submitted, it must contain surgical start & end times.  
• The run code and claim number must be included. 
• The claim itself should not be resubmitted electronically. 
 
 
AV 
This service is not insured. 
 
 
AW 
This Payment Schedule service code applies to a certain location of service; the location of 
service you submitted is not compatible.   
 

**Page 45**

Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 45
 
The Ministry of Health 
Explanatory Codes For Physicians 
AX 
A Medical Consultant has reviewed this claim. The circumstances described are not considered 
sufficient to warrant additional payment.  
 
 
AY 
Assessed by a Medical Consultant.  
 
 
AZ 
1) Please refer to correspondence sent to the physician or clinic. If you have questions, please 
contact Physician Claim Inquiries; or 
 
2) This code may have been rejected as a procedure that is "normally only performed once" (ie: 
total bilateral thyroidectomy) or only repeated after a reasonable interval (ie: delivery), 
please verify your service code and resubmit with report if applicable. 
 
 
BA 
Duplicate--same physician--payment has been made for the same service provided on the same 
day.  Please check your records for a duplicate payment and only resubmit the claim if the 
service has not been previously submitted and paid.   
 
 
BB 
 Possible duplication of a payment for a similar service. If no duplication, please resubmit with a 
note in the "Remarks" area on the claim or a comment record in the automated claim 
submission.  
 
 
BC 
Duplicate--same clinic--payment has been made to another physician in your clinic for a similar 
service on the same day.  Please check your records for a duplicate payment and only resubmit 
the claim if the service has not been previously submitted and paid.   
 
 
BD 
The beneficiary has been paid for a similar service provided on the same day.  
 
 
BE 
This Payment Schedule service code applies to a specific age or sex.   
 
 
BF 
Adjustment based on correspondence - Re: "Audit of Services". 
 
 
BG 
This Payment Schedule service code was submitted at less than the listed rate.  
1) If this claim has been returned to you, please correct and submit at the current rate. 
2) If this claim has been adjusted by Ministry Officials, the appropriate rate for the date of 
service has been approved.  
 
 
BH 
Payment Approved at:  
1) Listed rate for a specialist in your specialty.  
2) Equivalent service code and fee listed in your specialty.  
 
Re: Definition of "Specialist".  
 
 
BI 
Paid at the unreferred rate because of one of the following:  
1) The referring physician has not practised in Saskatchewan during the past two years; 
2) The 4-digit referring doctor is not valid; 
3) We could find no record of the "referring physician" being licensed to practice; or 
4) No referring doctor number was submitted. 

**Page 46**

Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 46

The Ministry of Health 
Explanatory Codes For Physicians 
 
 
BJ 
Payment for this item can only be made if the patient was referred and the 4-digit referring 
doctor number is indicated in the appropriate field. Please re-submit: 
1) if referred, with the 4-digit referring doctor in the appropriate field;  
2)   if unreferred, using appropriate code and fee.  
 
 
BK 
Payment based on the service code and related payment approved by the Ministry of Health.  
 
 
BL 
1) This service is currently being discussed with the Saskatchewan Medical Association Tariff 
Committee; OR 
 
2) This item is not currently an insured service; please contact the Saskatchewan Medical 
Association Tariff Committee to apply for a new service code. 
 
 
BM 
Unilateral/bilateral procedure--please re-submit indicating left/right or bilateral.  
BN 
You were asked for additional information to assess this claim, no reply received -- without this 
information, the claim cannot be processed.  
 
 
BO 
The approved service code and payment is based on your description of the service.  
 
BP 
Payment adjustment based on:  
1) your resubmission;  
2) our review of assessment; OR  
3) information received on Review of Claim Assessment form.  
 
 
BQ 
The service code and/or amount submitted are incorrect. Please review and resubmit.  
 
 
BR 
Blank or Invalid service code -- please review.  
 
 
BS 
The service code submitted is not correct for the condition described; or the service(s) provided.  
 
 
BT 
Approved at the maximum amount consistent with your description of the service provided.  
 
 
BU 
Payment not approved for:  
 
1) Surcharge alone; 
 
2) Surcharge with: 
 
a) another surcharge code: 615A, 721A, 815A, 816A, 817A, 818A, 819A, 836A, 837A, 
838A, 839A or 915A;  
 
b) Service codes 41A, 56A, 60A, 70A, 71A, 74A, 80A, 81A, 153A-156A, 184A, 190A-198A, 
600A, 627A-629A, 680A, 681A, 708A-710A, 714A-718A, 725A-727A, 753A, 770A 42B-
44B, 60B-68B, 73B, 85B, 200B, 205B,  206B, 207B, 30D, 31D, 32D, 130D, 131D, 145D, 
278D, 279D, 281D-285D, 290D, 291D, 320D, 43E, 142E, 144E, 400H-424H, 667H, 80J-
81J, 278K, 279K, 452L, 31M, 42O, 44O, 260P, 261P, 300T;  
 
c)   hospital care codes, including newborn care, supportive care (52B-53B) ;  
 
d) a pre-arranged service; and 
 
e)  phone calls or faxes (70A, 761A–769A and 790A-795A, 796A, 797A).  
 
3) Surcharge for an extra patient not paid for the day and time indicated.  
 
Continued on next page…. 

**Page 47**

Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 47

The Ministry of Health 
Explanatory Codes For Physicians 
BU 
Continued: 
4) Premium service codes should not be submitted based on the eligible service codes being 
paid. They are automatically generated by the Ministry of Health.  
 
5) Surcharges for emergency room physicians providing emergency room shifts or first on-call 
services. 
 
6) Hospital care surcharge: 700A for non-statutory holidays, and 701A if not Saturday or 
Sunday. 
 
7) Extra patient surcharge not paid with 335H to 339H. Initial patient surcharges paid only 
once per patient per day. 
 
 
BV 
Premium or non-premium payment based on the appropriate service code and amount listed for 
the date and times provided. 
 
 
BW 
Billed more than listed payment - appropriate payment for the date of service has been 
approved. 
 
 
BX 
This is a time-based service: 
1) Time requirements have not been met; therefore, no payment can be made; or   
2) The service code descriptor states "greater portion thereof" or "major portion thereof", 
and the greater/major portion of the time component has not been met; therefore, the 
additional time units are not payable. Re: Definitions: Major Portion/Part Thereof.  
3) Start and Stop Times provided do not correspond to the number of units billed. 
 
 
BY 
Payment on a time basis--please designate the treatment time and resubmit.  
 
 
BZ 
Payment is based on the amount payable to a Saskatchewan physician in the same specialty 
providing the same or similar service. 
 
«L2:SERVICES NOT INSURED BY THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH»
 
 
CA 
Medical examinations, services and provision of certificates or reports requested by a third 
party, e.g. for:  
 
• Attendance at camps  
• Autopsies 
• Daycare 
• Employment 
• Employment Insurance Program 
• Insurance 
• Judicial purposes (other than adoption or 
commitment) 
• Motor vehicle or other license (MSB 
pays some services for SGI) 
• Participation in Sports 
• Passport or Visa 
• Seat belt exemption 
• Third party counselling 
• University or private school entrance 

**Page 48**

Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 48
 
The Ministry of Health 
Explanatory Codes For Physicians 
 
CB 
Materials & other services--e.g.:  
 
• Acupuncture  
• Advice by telephone or letter(most)  
• Ambulance services  
• Anesthetic materials 
• Appliances (Prostheses)  
• Casts 
• Committee or Advisory service  
• Contractual Service for a government 
department or agency 
• Dentistry  
• Dressing or medication 
• Drugs 
• Eyeglasses or Contact Lenses 
• Facility fee  
• Medical testimony in court  
• Medical-legal opinion and report  
• Secretarial or reporting fee(s)  
• Services by a special duty nurse 
• Surgical supplies  
• Travel by a physician   
• Tray service (see service codes 897L 
and agency 899L for description)  
 
 
CC 
Immunization services--when available under the Ministry of Health programs. If this patient was 
referred by the Ministry of Health personnel or there are medical factors which prohibited 
immunization under the Ministry of Health programs, please resubmit with an explanation.  
 
 
CD 
Hospital Services:  
1) Services provided by:  
a) Hospital personnel; or  
b) Any out-patient facility having a contract with the Ministry of Health. 
2) The technical component of a diagnostic procedure performed in a hospital utilizing 
hospital equipment, e.g. ECG, EEG. 
 
 
CE 
A service by a physician who is not registered with or licensed by the appropriate agency of the 
Province, State or Country on the date the service was provided; or 
 
Based on an undertaking or license restriction imposed by the College of Physicians and 
Surgeons of Saskatchewan, this service is not payable to this physician. 
 
 
CF 
 This service code is not valid for this date, because it is either:  
1) Prior to implementation; or  
2) After deletion from the Payment Schedule.  
 
CG 
Your claim has been rejected for payment and no further action is required. Per The College of 
Physicians and Surgeons of Saskatchewan's Bylaws (7.1) and Code of Ethics item (7), physicians 
must: 
 
Limit treatment of yourself, your immediate family, or anyone with whom you have a similarly 
close relationship to minor or emergency interventions and only when another physician is not 
readily available; there should be no fee for such treatment. 
 
Medical Services Branch routinely reviews services billed by physicians on family members (as 
registered in the same family unit by Health Registries) or themselves. In certain circumstances, 
as deemed necessary by MSB officials, this information is forwarded to the College of Physicians 
and Surgeons for further investigation.  

**Page 49**

Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 49

The Ministry of Health 
Explanatory Codes For Physicians 
 
 
CH 
These services appear to be the responsibility of the Department of Veteran's Affairs (DVA.).  
• Please send the appropriate form to DVA:  
Treatment Benefit Unit, Box 6050, Winnipeg, R3C 4G5.  
• If they do not accept responsibility, please resubmit the claim electronically with the 
comment "Not responsibility of DVA".   
 
 
CI 
The service provided cannot be paid for an out-of-province beneficiary; it is on the excluded list 
of services for reciprocal billing purposes or it cannot be billed under the reciprocal billing 
process.  
 
 
CJ 
Our records indicate this patient was not in the hospital on this date. If this information is 
incorrect, please resubmit with the admission and discharge dates.   
 
CK 
This service is not insured - our records indicate that the beneficiary died more than 30 days 
prior to date of service. 
 
 
CL 
In-hospital services for which payment may be funded by the Ministry of Health. 
 
 
CM 
Claims received more than six months after the date of service. A resubmitted claim must be 
returned within 1 month. If factors beyond your control prevented submission within 6 months, 
the following details must be received in writing addressed to the Manager, Claims Unit (fax: 
306-798-0582):    
 
1) List of claims for which you are requesting the time limit approval; 
2) Service codes and dollar amounts; 
3) Number of patients; 
4) Dates of service; 
5) Circumstances for the delay in submitting your accounts; and  
6) Date of submission.  
 
 
CN 
Claim received more than twelve months after the date of service cannot be accepted for any 
reason.  
 
 
CO 
Date of Service is prior to:  
1) The physician's registration date; OR  
2) The effective specialty date as indicated by the College of Physicians and Surgeons of 
Saskatchewan.  
 
CP 
Our latest information from the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Saskatchewan indicates 
that you are registered in Saskatchewan as a General Practitioner.  
 
 
CS 
Department of Veterans' Affairs - has advised the Ministry of Health that they have paid you for 
this service.  
 
 
CT 
Workers' Compensation Board has advised the Ministry of Health that they have paid you or 
another physician in your clinic for the same service, a similar related service or a service which 
includes post-operative care.  

**Page 50**

Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 50
 
The Ministry of Health 
Explanatory Codes For Physicians 
 
 
CU 
Payment is based on one of the following: 
1) Payment is only approved for those physicians listed by the College of Physicians and 
Surgeons of Saskatchewan, State Board, Saskatchewan Health Authority or Saskatchewan 
Medical Association Tariff Committee in their practice locale as having qualified to receive 
payment for this service or approved according to requirements listed for a particular 
service code.  
2) List I and II laboratory services are only payable when provided in a medical laboratory 
which holds a Category I licence issued pursuant to The Medical Laboratory Licensing Act.  
 
 
CW 
These services appear to be the responsibility of the Workers' Compensation Board (WCB.). 
Please submit a claim to the WCB at Suite 200 - 1881 Scarth Street, Regina, S4P 4L1. If they do 
not accept responsibility, WCB will forward the claim to you. If the claim has not yet been paid, 
please submit an automated claim to MSB with a comment "Not WCB" followed by the date 
submitted to and rejected by WCB. 
 
CY 
This service not usually billed by a physician in your specialty.  
 
 
CZ 
Service Code of 20A can be on the same claim number as visit codes, laboratory services, 131A, 
204A, 205A, 206A, 30D, 31D, 32D and 815A-839A. Also a diagnostic code of Z90 should only be 
used in conjunction with a claim containing a service code of 20A. 
 
«L2:VISITS»
 
 
DA 
Only one visit type service is approved during a single patient contact. If there were 2 separate 
patient contacts, please resubmit with the reason and time of the second visit.   
 
 
DB 
Please clarify the second visit on the same day by the same physician or the same specialty and 
clinic.  
 
 
DC 
Multiple diagnoses during a single patient contact. Another agency appears to be responsible for 
the assessment and/or treatment of one condition. Payment of services for another condition is 
not approved.  
 
 
DD 
Please verify date(s) of service and resubmit.  
 
 
DE 
 Included in the payment for another service provided during the same physician/patient 
contact.  
 
 
DF 
Codes 64B-68B, 206B, and 207B are only payable once per patient every 90 days; we have 
adjusted your payment to a similar visit service.   
 
 
DG 
Please resubmit under the Health Services Number of the patient to whom you provided the 
service.   
 
 
DH 
Please identify the person(s) interviewed, e.g., wife, son, employer, teacher, etc.  

**Explanatory Codes For Physicians**

DI
A return visit on the same day by either the same physician or another physician in the same 
specialty and clinic for the purposes of reviewing or taking of x-rays and/or ultrasounds is 
regarded as an inclusion in the first visit service.


DJ
Third party counselling billed under codes 40B/41B must be billed under the name of the person 
counseled, not the patient.


DK
Third party counselling billed under codes 15C/16C must be billed under the name of the child 
(not the parent/caregiver/relative, etc) regardless of who is being counselled.


DL
Surcharge 721A applies to a life-threatening situation and admission to hospital -- the 
information given on your claim does not indicate the necessity for an immediate "STAT" 
response regarding a life-threatening situation.

Your surcharge may have been adjusted to another surcharge based on the information 
provided. If resubmitting, please provide further information or submit under an alternate 
surcharge.


DM
Service codes 220A-226A, 918A, 919A, 926A-928A, 335H-339H relate to the time actually spent 
with the patient, and all services provided during this time. Please indicate:
1) Time when service started and was completed.
2) Clinical factors necessitating the personal attendance/indirect care/resuscitation.
3) Services provided during that time.


DN
Surcharge 721A does not apply where the patient is already hospitalized.


DO
Our record and your service description indicate that this service appears to be inconsistent with 
the definition of a special call.


DP
Service codes 220A-226A, 918A, 919A, 926A-928A, 935A, 936A, 335H to 339H and most 400H-
424H services -- include all services provided during this time. Payment based on your 
description of services.


DQ
Additional patient--payment has been previously approved for a special call made to another 
patient at the same location on the same date.

If you were "specially called" a second time and returned to provide this specific service please 
resubmit for the difference in payment under the initial service code with a notation confirming 
the return visit.

DS
Service codes 220A-226A and 918A are not paid when other service codes apply.


DT
Continued hospital care—payment is based on continuous hospital care.
1) Assessment Rules – "Hospital Care", #2.


DU
Our records indicate that the beneficiary was a hospital in-patient on the date of service.
a) Payment adjusted to the appropriate item for hospital care.
b) Payment rejected.  Please verify location of service.

DV
926A applies to the actual time spent in transit with the patient. Please resubmit indicating:
1) Location from which patient was transferred,
2) Location of hospital to which patient was transferred,
3) Times of departure and arrival.


DW
Multiple visits--hospital--the payment for daily in-hospital care is a maximum regardless of the 
number of visits made by the physician.
1) Assessment Rules - "Hospital Care", #1.


DX
Concurrent care -- payment has been made to another physician for daily hospital care for this 
period. Payment to a second physician is only approved when a satisfactory explanation is 
provided that care by two physicians was required.


DY
Special Call or emergency visit--in-hospital care- will not be approved for a hospital in-patient 
without additional information.
Please resubmit with an indication of the factors requiring the visit.
Re: "Assessment Rules" - "Hospital Care", #4.


DZ
"READMISSION" must be indicated in order to be eligible for the higher rate of payment when a 
patient is readmitted within 14 days.
Re: Assessment Rules - "Hospital Care", #2.

**CONSULTATIONS**


EA
Consultation converted to a repeat. Re: Assessment Rules - "Consultations", #6 (a) and (f).


ED
A Medical Consultant has reviewed this claim. The diagnosis does not seem to indicate the 
necessity for a Consultation.
If resubmitting, please provide a copy of the consultation report.


EL
Virtual consultation converted to a virtual partial/follow-up assessment.
Re: Assessment Rules - "Consultations", #6 (b) and (d) and #7.


EM
Complete/initial assessment converted to a partial/follow-up assessment.
Re: Assessment Rules - "Consultations", #6 (c), (e), and (g).


EN
Consultation converted to a complete/initial assessment.
Re: Assessment Rules - "Consultations" - #6 (d) and #7.


EO
An initial in-hospital consultation on the same day or within 42 days after a complete/initial 
assessment is converted to a complete/initial.


EP
An initial in-hospital consultation on the same day or within 90 days after another consultation is 
converted to a complete/initial assessment.

ER
Your claim has been assessed based on one of the following:
1) A previous 52B has been paid for this admission; only 1 payable. If this is a readmission, 
resubmit indicating the date of admission/discharge.
2) Second 53B is not payable within six days.
3) This patient does not appear to be under the care of a specialist or a GP Hospitalist from 
an approved site; please resubmit with the name of the attending specialist or GP 
Hospitalist.


ES
A follow-up visit on the day of a 42-day elective procedure, is not approved when seen by the 
physician within the previous 30 days.


ET
Per "Hospital Care" item (2):  Payment will be made as if hospitalization has been continuous 
when a patient is transferred during the same admission to either a specialist in the same 
specialty or a general practitioner.  Consultations and visit services are not payable for transfers 
of care in these circumstances.

**PROCEDURES**

FA
Paid at the greater of the procedure or visit/consultation.
1) Assessment Rules - "Multiple Services", Rule 1.
2) Payment Schedule Listing.


FB
Minor procedures for which no payment is listed are considered an inclusion in the visit or 
consultation.


FC
Second procedure paid at 75% when performed bilaterally.
Re: Assessment Rules - "Multiple Services", Rule 5.


FD
This service code is listed as a bilateral procedure. Therefore, only one (1) is payable per patient 
contact.


FE
The greater payment approved:
1) Procedure not approved in addition to another service.
2) Included in the payment for the procedure.
3) Assessment Rules - "Multiple Services", Rule 1.
4) Payment Schedule listing.


FF
Maximum approved--this service with prior services by the same physician or clinic would exceed 
the maximum.


FG
Multiple interpretations billed on the same date. Please resubmit indicating if these 
interpretations are for tracings done on different days, the time and reason for multiple 
interpretations.

FH
Technical component not approved. In order for a physician to be eligible for payment of 
technical fees:

• The physician must personally own the equipment and employ staff performing the 
testing (if testing is being performed by staff) as technical components are intended to 
offset physician costs associated with performing the service. If physician owns 
equipment and employs staff, please resubmit with this information.

• It must not be performed in any part of a hospital.  Only the interpretation component 
can be approved when this service is provided in any part of a hospital. If not provided to 
either an inpatient or an outpatient, please resubmit designating the locale.


FI
Considered an inclusion within the payment for a related procedure.


FK
Echocardiography service code and payment is adjusted or rejected based on prior services by 
the same physician or clinic in accordance with annual maximums.


FM
Approved only with specified services as listed in the Payment Schedule.


FP
A "0" or "10" day Procedure billed in addition to a visit (including hospital care) or consultation--
approved at the greater of:
1) The procedure alone; OR
2) The visit plus the procedure at 75%.
Re: Assessment Rules - "Multiple Services", Rule 2.


FS
Approved as repeat procedure--previously paid to you or to another physician in the same 
specialty and clinic.


FT
Code 34F, PUVA therapy, is paid once only on alternate days. Repeat billings are converted to 
150A.


FY
 A code and a fee have been approved by the Ministry of Health that are not yet available for 
billing. A temporary code has been used to process your claim.


FZ
The calculated premium is based on the submitted service code and is paid as the premium 
approved service code. The amount has been calculated using the appropriate premium 
percentage multiplied by the approved amount plus the age (or pediatric) supplement when 
calculating time of day premium of the eligible service code.

**MEDICAL CONSULTANT REVIEW OF CLAIMS**

GA
This claim has been assessed by a Medical Consultant.  No further action will be undertaken by 
MSB unless further review is formally requested in accordance with the policy outlined under 
"Assessment of Accounts" – point 1(a) - of the Physicians Payment Schedule.  Requirements for 
review by a Medical Consultant are:

• Written request for review including rationale for additional consideration;
• New Information which supports Request for Review; and/or
• Operative Record indicating start and stop times for procedure.

GB
This claim has been reviewed by a Medical Consultant.  The documentation provided does not 
support the code(s) submitted.  No further action will be undertaken by MSB unless new 
information is submitted which supports the claim(s).


GC
This claim is being reviewed by a Medical Consultant; please provide a copy of the medical 
record/operative report with operative record within 30 days to support billing.  Do not resubmit 
claim electronically.  For inquiries related to this request, contact the Claims Analysis Unit at  
306-787-3454, option 2.


**ANESTHESIA**


HA
Based on the total payment (calculated at the specialist rate, regardless of "repeat surgery rule" 
or surgery by a general practitioner) for the procedure(s) performed.
Re: Section "H", item 3.


HB
Service converted to the appropriate service code for the start-up approved.


HC
Another service provided during a period of intensive care has been paid in lieu of that period of 
335H-339H or 420H-424H series.


HD
"Standby" - Please indicate:
1) The physician who requested the "standby",
2) The commencement and completion times of both the "standby" and the anesthesia, and
3) The services provided during the "standby".
Re: Section "H", item 7.


HE
Included in payment of anesthesia. E.g., Consultation is not approved to the physician who also 
provided Anesthesia same day.  Re: Section "H", item 1 and 2.


HG
Paid as a second anesthetist. Re: Section "H", item 6.


HH
This service, with previous 335H-339H or 400H – 424H services, exceeds the listed maximums (see 
Payment Schedule). Adjusted to the approved service code and fee.


HL
Payment for general anesthesia for dental procedures outside a hospital restricted to specialists 
in anesthesia.
1) Definitions -- "Specialist".
2) Information for Physicians -- "Services Not Insured by the Ministry of Health".


HN
Nerve Blocks, Section H.
1. Greater payment approved -- nerve block and other service(s).
2. Nerve blocks are not payable in addition to a surgical procedure on the same day when 
provided by the same surgeon:
See explanatory codes KB and KH; and
Assessment Rules, "Procedures", item 3 (c).


HO
Greater payment approved -- Pain Clinic and other service.

HP
Epidural anesthesia provided during labour and delivery should be billed as service codes 600H, 
601H, and 667H.


HQ
Approved only for services by a specialist in a designated Pain Clinic.


**SURGICAL ASSISTANCE**


JA
Payment for assistance is not approved for this procedure unless special circumstances 
satisfactory to the Ministry of Health are described. Please provide details.
Re: Section "J", item 2.


JB
The additional time code did not correspond with the base code.


JC
Payment is to be based on the induction of anesthetic to when the surgical assistant is no longer 
required – payment has been adjusted based on billed anesthetic time.


JD
Assistant standby not paid if assistant fees are billed.


JE
Payment for more than one surgical assistant is not approved for this type of surgical procedure 
unless special circumstances satisfactory to the Ministry of Health are described.   Re: Section "J", 
item 3.


JF
This claim is rejected as the surgery claim has not been received or the surgery submitted is not 
eligible for the type of assist billed. Please contact the surgeon.
1) When the surgery is submitted by the surgeon, MSB will readjudicate your claim. Do not 
resubmit.
2) If surgery is not eligible for the type of assist billed, please resubmit a new claim.


JG
1) 80J/81J are for office-based physicians who earn less than 50% of their income submitted and 
paid through the MSB billing system from surgical assisting.



2) 80J/81J is for scheduled surgeries performed between 8:00 am and 5:00 pm, Monday to 
Friday.


If your claim has been rejected or converted to another surgical assistance code, it is

because:

a) The service was not provided between 8:00 and 5:00 pm Monday to Friday;

b) The service was billed with a premium location (B, K, M, C);
c) The service was billed with a surcharge (815A-839A);
d) The physician was not eligible to bill this service because they do not earn less than 50% 
of their income through surgical assisting;
e) The service was billed on a statutory holiday or weekend.


JH
Service codes 540H, 545H, 580H, and 585H are not billable by the surgical assistant with "J 
Section" codes. These service codes are only payable to the anesthetist who is providing the 
anesthetic service with H section codes.


JJ
BMI supplements are not billable by the surgical assistant with "J Section" codes.

**PROCEDURES**


JM
Control of post-op hemorrhage in the first 24 hours is included in the composite fee for the surgical 
procedure.

JN
Considered an inclusion within the payment for a more major procedure.


JO
 Paid in accordance with rules for two or more procedures performed on the same day by the 
same physician, another physician in same specialty and clinic or part of the surgical team. Re: 
Assessment Rules - "Multiple Services", Rule 8.


JP
Claim is being rejected because this code has been billed and paid to another physician.


JQ
Paid at the maximum listed for these multiple procedures. Re: Payment Schedule item.


JR
Paid at 1/3 of listed payment when a surgical procedure is performed by 2 specialists and payment 
is not defined for the second surgeon.


JS
Complex incisional hernia with Inlay mesh (246L):

1. Your claim is being rejected because you have not included the payment criteria as required 
under code 246L.
2. Your claim is being converted to 245L "incisional hernia" because the payment criteria have 
not been met; please do not resubmit this claim.


JT
The bilateral procedure payment is approved when unilateral procedures are staged during the 
same hospital admission. Re: Assessment Rules - "Multiple Services", Rule 9.


JW
Paid as a repeat or related procedure within the designated post-operative period.
Re: Assessment Rules - "Multiple Services", Rule 10.


KA
An inclusion in the payment for the procedure when provided by the same physician, another 
physician in same specialty and clinic or part of the surgical team.
1) Assessment Rules - "Procedures", items b and d - "Multiple Services", Rule 8 (a).
2) Various Payment Schedule items.


KB
The anesthetic is an inclusion in the surgical fee when provided by the same physician.


KC
Initial visit or consultation provided on the same day as a 42 day procedure is converted to a 
partial/follow-up visit.


KH
Only the greater payment is approved when a physician acts in more than one capacity, e.g. 
anesthetist, assistant or surgeon.


KI
Preoperative assessments (15B) are not payable to the same physician who performs the surgical 
procedure.




KJ
This service is not payable unless all required components of the code are fulfilled and 
documented, as outlined in the Physician Payment Schedule. No further action will be undertaken 
by MSB unless new information is submitted which supports the service(s) billed.  If you are unsure 
about what is required, please contact the Claims Analysis Unit.


KM
Diagnostic procedure on the day of a "42" Day procedure approved at 75%. If the diagnostic 
procedure is a greater value than the 42 day procedure, the diagnostic procedure is payable at 
100% and the 42 day procedure at 75%. Re: Assessment Rules - "Multiple Services", Rule 6.


KN
Related diagnostic procedure during the designated post-operative period of a "10" or "42" Day 
procedure approved at 75%. Re: Assessment Rules - "Multiple Services", Rule 7.


KO
The two days of pre-operative care in hospital are included in the payment for a "10" or "42" Day 
procedure.


KP
Visit (including hospital care) or consultation, same day, is included in the payment for a "42" Day 
procedure when provided by the same physician, another physician in same specialty and clinic or 
part of the team. Re: Assessment Rules - "Multiple Services", Rule 3.

KQ
Inpatient visits (including hospital care) or consultation during the designated post-operative 
period of a related "10" or "42" Day procedure is included in the payment for procedure when 
provided by same physician, a general practitioner in the same clinic or a specialist in the same 
specialty and clinic. Re: Assessment Rules - "Multiple Services", Rule 4.

KR
Only one special call is approved per major surgical procedure or dislocation.


KS
Codes 232L and 142P are only payable for Malignancy. Code 142P is only payable in addition to 
123P or 134P.


KV
This service is not payable unless necessary criteria of the code is documented on the claim. Please 
resubmit with comment(s).


LA
348L included in payment for 355L.


LB
The 898L is for removal of sutures and/or staples from lacerations or surgical incisions (i.e. 10 or 42 
day procedures).

LC
890L - 895L -- please indicate:
1) The total length of the lacerations by site.
2) The length of the facial component of any laceration extending from facial to non-facial 
area. Re: Payment Schedule items.


LD
Approved only with specified services as listed in the schedule under payment item 897L, 899L, 
181S or 300T, where provided in a physician's office.

LE
Please identify the site and extent of burn area. Re: Payment Schedule item.



**ORTHOPEDICS**

MB
Included in the "composite" paid for the initial immobilization or closed reduction.
1) "Fractures", items 1, 2 and 3
2) "Dislocations", items 1 and 2.


MC
Maximum for undisplaced fracture. Re: "Fractures", item 2.


MD
Paid as closed reduction plus 50%. Re: "Fractures", item 3(c)(ii).


ME
When an "open reduction" or a "closed reduction with external fixation" is performed by any 
physician within the post-operative period of a previous attempted reduction, the payment for the 
prior fracture is reduced by 50%.
1) "Fractures", item 3(c)
2) "Dislocations", item 2.


MF
Payment for the previously attempted reduction is reduced by 50%.
1) "Fractures", item 3(b)
2) "Dislocations", item 2.


MH
Reduction of a dislocated hip within the post-operative period is included in the arthroplasty 
payment.

MI
"Fracture" and "dislocation" - same date - same site - greater payment approved.


ML
133M: the source of the autogenous bone from a different site has not been identified.


MM
31M, 32M, or 33M: NOT paid in addition to, or part of, another orthopedic procedure, performed 
through the same or extended incision by any physician.

MP
Synovectomy not paid in addition to major joint surgery.


NB
Care provided for cosmetic purposes is not an insured service.
Re: Information for Physicians - "Services Not Insured by the Ministry of Health."


NC
382N & 383N--restricted to a "plastic surgeon" treating a referred patient; 890L approved.


ND
287N for reconstruction of nose not paid in addition to rhinoplasty. April 1, 2013 IN.44


**OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY**


PA
Delivery bonus for GP physicians only – additional 25% payable on the first 25 of either 41P or 42P 
services in each year beginning April 1.


PB
Included in the payment for delivery and post-natal care in hospital.
Re:"Obstetrics", item 4(a-g).

PC
A therapeutic abortion code (50P, 250P) was billed with an office location.

Codes 50P (first trimester) and 250P (second trimester) are designated as '42-day' surgical 
procedures and can only be billed for the provision of performing surgical abortions.  If a surgical 
procedure was performed, please resubmit with the correct location of service (outpatient or 
inpatient).

50P and 250P cannot be billed for administering or prescribing pharmaceutical abortion agents such 
as mifepristone and misoprostol. See service code 150B and 351P for the administration and 
medical management of pharmaceutical abortion agents.


PG
42P approved - patient was turned over to consultant who provided the delivery.
Re: "Obstetrics", item 2.


PH
40P or 4lP is only approved for the delivery of a viable fetus of 20 weeks or more.


PI
Only one special call surcharge is approved per confinement (case).

PL
Payment approved as subsequent pre-natal or post-natal care.


PS
Two complications of pregnancy may be claimed per patient per pregnancy.
Report required for more than 2.


PU
Continuous personal attendance is not paid with a delivery.

**INCORRECT FEES**


QA
1) The claim submitted has hospital dates that span two different Payment Schedule rates.
Please resubmit claim(s), with correct fees for the date(s) of service; or

2) This claim has laboratory services and an ECG service; please resubmit with the ECG on a 
separate claim.


QB
The fee submitted is incorrect for the Payment Schedule rate in effect on the date of service.
Please update your system with the current Payment Schedule rate(s) OR if you've already updated 
your system with the new rate(s), please check the date of service if it is prior to the effective date 
of the new rate, and then resubmit your claim with the correct fees.


QC
Number of units submitted is incorrect. Either this service does not have units or the number of 
units is greater than listed in the Payment Schedule.  Resubmit with the correct number of units and 
fee. Services which do not have units must be submitted on an individual line.


QD
700A is only billable on a Statutory holiday (or on the day designated in lieu, when the statutory 
holiday falls on a Saturday or Sunday).  701A is only billable on a Saturday or Sunday.  Resubmit with 
the correct date of service.


QE
This service code must be billed in conjunction with a base code.   Please review the Payment 
Schedule and code descriptor.  Resubmit your amended claim in the next billing cycle.

Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 61
The Ministry of Health 
Explanatory Codes For Physicians 
 
«L1:ROUTINE AUDIT & RECOVERY»
 
 
All information and patient records being submitted as a result of a routine audit (all explanatory 
codes in the Routine Audit and Recovery section) should be forwarded to Policy, Governance and 
Audit (PGA): 
 
Policy, Governance and Audit: 
Phone: 306-787-0496 /  Fax:  306-787-3761 
Email:  MSBPaymentsandAudit@health.gov.sk.ca 
 
On the following form :  Routine Audit – Request for Information and Response form 
https://www.ehealthsask.ca/services/resources/establish-operate-practice/Pages/Physicians.aspx 
 
Ministry officials expect that the records submitted for review are complete, legible and support 
the service(s) billed according to the "Documentation Requirements for the Purpose of Billing", as 
adjudication is based on the records received by MSB.  
 
This includes supporting documentation regarding any applicable charges pertaining to time of 
day, location of service, start and stop times, etc.  
 
All relevant documentation to support the code(s) as billed should be submitted for review at once 
within 30 days of the request in order to prevent delays in the completion of routine audits. If 
additional information has been formally requested by Audit, it is expected that the supporting 
documentation is submitted for review as soon as possible to avoid further delay. 
 
 
RA 
To assist Ministry officials in the routine monitoring and review of practitioner payments, please 
provide a copy of the medical record and/or the appropriate documentation within 30 days to 
support this billing. Please refer to the "Routine Audit and Recovery" preamble in the current 
Physician Payment Schedule for further information.  
 
 
RB 
This adjustment for repayment or recovery is being made as a result of a routine audit undertaken 
by Policy, Governance and Audit of Medical Services.  For inquiries related to this payment, contact 
PGA. 
 
 
RC 
This claim is being returned/recovered as it is currently under review as a part of a routine audit. 
Policy, Governance and Audit (PGA) will adjudicate this claim and make the appropriate 
adjustment, if warranted. Do not resubmit electronically. For inquiries related to this audit, contact 
PGA. 
 
 
RD 
This service appears to have been pre-planned/pre-arranged.  If the claim was billed with a 
surcharge (815A-839A or 721A), within 30 days please provide the medical record that supports: 
a) the time of day that the service was provided;  
b) the physician's location when they were called out; and  
c) the reason for the special call. 
 
 
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 62
 
The Ministry of Health 
Explanatory Codes For Physicians 
 
RE 
This service was billed with a time-of-day premium (B, C, D, E, F, K, M, P, T). Within 30 days, 
please provide the time that the service was provided, including documentation that supports 
the location of service billed and time that the service was provided. If the documentation 
submitted for review does not support the location of service provided, payment will be made 
with a non-premium location of service. 
 
 
RF 
A special call/surcharge (815A to 839A) was billed.  Within 30 days, please provide: 
 
a) the time of day that the service was provided; and 
b) the physician's location when they were called out; and  
c) the reason for the special call. 
 
 
RG 
This service is being recovered or converted as a result of a routine audit pertaining to 540H 
(anesthetic premium for cases starting before 5:00 p.m. and ending after 5:00 p.m). 
 
a) If you have indicated that the anesthetic start time was before 5:00 pm on a weekday, 
AND you have billed 500H-507H with a time-of-day premium (B, C, K, M, etc), the service 
is not eligible for a time-of-day premium and your claim is being converted to a non-
premium location of service. 
 
b) If you have indicated that the anesthetic start time was after 5:00 p.m. on a weekday, 
then 540H is not eligible for payment and this service is being recovered.  
 
c) If you have not indicated a start time, please provide the start time and submit to PGA 
for review. 
 
 
RH 
This service is being recovered or converted as a result of a routine audit pertaining to 545H 
(anesthetic premium for cases starting before 12:00 a.m. and ending after 12:00 a.m.). 
 
a) If you have indicated that the anesthetic start time was before 12:00 a.m., AND you have 
billed 500H-507H with a time-of-day premium (K, M), the service is not eligible for a 
100% time-of-day premium and your claim is being converted to the appropriate 
premium (B, C). 
 
b) If you have not indicated a start time, please provide the start time and submit to Policy 
Governance and Audit (PGA) for review. 
 
RI 
This service is being recovered as a result of a routine audit pertaining to injection services.  If 
this service is for a routine, regularly scheduled visit for the purpose of providing an injection 
service (110A, 131A, 161A, etc), please resubmit as the appropriate injection code.   
 
If the partial assessment (5B) was medically required and meets all of the Payment Schedule 
criteria, submit to a copy of the medical record to PGA for review within 30 days. See PGA 
contact information in preamble. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 63
 
The Ministry of Health 
Explanatory Codes For Physicians 
 
RJ 
The Ministry of Health performs post-JMPRC audits to ensure compliance with the Joint Medical 
Professional Review Committee's recommendations, and to ensure that the service codes 
submitted to the Ministry for payment meet the requirements as set out in the Physician 
Payment Schedule, the physician's Direct Payment Agreement with Medical Services Branch and 
The Saskatchewan Medical Care Insurance Act.    
 
To assist Ministry officials in the routine post-JMPRC monitoring and review of physician 
payments, please provide a copy of the medical record and/or the appropriate documentation to 
support this billing.  Please see correspondence from Policy Governance and Audit (PGA) if more 
information is required.  See PGA contact information in preamble. 
RK 
The Ministry of Health performs post-JMPRC audits to ensure compliance with the Joint Medical 
Professional Review Committee's recommendations, and to ensure that the service codes 
submitted to the Ministry for payment meet the requirements as set out in the Physician 
Payment Schedule, the physician's Direct Payment Agreement with Medical Services Branch and 
The Saskatchewan Medical Care Insurance Act.    
 
• 
An adjustment has been made to pay this claim as previously submitted and paid.   
• 
No further information is required.   
 
Please see correspondence from Policy Governance and Audit (PGA) if more information is 
required.  See PGA contact information in preamble above. 
 
 
RL 
The Ministry of Health performs post-JMPRC audits to ensure compliance with the Joint Medical 
Professional Review Committee's recommendations, and to ensure that the service codes 
submitted to the Ministry for payment meet the requirements as set out in the Physician 
Payment Schedule, the physician's Direct Payment Agreement with Medical Services Branch and 
The Saskatchewan Medical Care Insurance Act.    
 
• 
An adjustment has been made to pay this claim with the appropriate service code and 
rate which is different than the original claim submitted and paid.   
 
Please see correspondence from Policy Governance and Audit if more information is required.  See PGA contact 
information in preamble. 
 
 
RM 
Monthly stipend codes (60B, 61B, 62B) are restricted to physicians who have been approved by 
the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Saskatchewan to prescribe either methadone or 
buprenorphine/naloxone (Suboxone) for addiction and are actively supervising the patient's 
continuing use of methadone or buprenorphine/naloxone (Suboxone), within the provincial 
methadone program, based on your prescribing authority status. 
 
a) These codes are not billable for the management of patients with "pain"; and/or 
b) These codes are not billable if the physician does not have current approval from the 
College of Physicians and Surgeons of Saskatchewan to prescribe these medications for 
addiction.  

Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 64
 
The Ministry of Health 
Explanatory Codes For Physicians 
 
 
RN 
This service is being recovered as the result of a routine audit pertaining to the billing of a Special 
Care Management service code (627A, 628A). Within 30 days, please submit the name and full 
address of the Special Care Home or facility, in addition to the corresponding record(s). See PGA 
contact information in preamble. 
 
 
RO 
This service is being recovered as it appears to be cosmetic in nature. Cosmetic treatments and 
therapies (a service to enhance appearance without being medically necessary) are not insured 
services.  This includes any consultations or assessments provided for the provision of assessing 
the suitability or options for a cosmetic treatment or therapy.   Physicians should not use the 
presence of a "medical" element (ie: acne, medical refill) as justification to bill the publicly 
funded system when uninsured (cosmetic) services are the main motivation of the patient.  
 
Per The Medical Care Insurance Beneficiary and Administrative Regulations, section 10, 
subsection (i) and (e):  
 
For the purposes of section 15 of the Act, the following services are uninsured services:  
 
(e) plastic or other surgery for cosmetic purposes; 
 
(i)  any service that is provided in conjunction with another service that is an uninsured 
service. 
 
 
RP 
The service code(s) submitted does not appear consistent with the condition or diagnosis as 
described. If it was not the correct code, please resubmit the correct code with a comment on 
the claim.  We do not require a report unless the initial code submitted was the intended service 
code; if so, within 30 days, please submit documents to support your billing to PGA; please see 
the preamble for contact information.  
 
 
RQ 
Diagnostic testing must only be ordered and performed when medically required and clinically 
indicated.   
 
If there was a medical necessity for this testing, within 30 days, please provide an explanation 
regarding the clinical indication and medical necessity of the test(s) and submit the requested 
information to PGA; please see the preamble for contact information.  
 
 
RR 
This service is being recovered as the result of a routine audit pertaining to the billing of a service 
that requires a referral, such as a consultation service or a diagnostic ultrasound/x-ray-, etc.  We 
require a copy of the requisition/referral, as well as documentation that supports the service 
billed, such as the consultation letter or radiology report, etc.  Within 30 days, please submit the 
requested information to PGA; please see the preamble for contact information.   
 
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 65
 
The Ministry of Health 
Explanatory Codes For Physicians 
 
 
RS 
This service is being recovered as it appears to be billed in conjunction with a service that is not 
insured by the Ministry of Health. The service(s) for which your claim has been billed in 
conjunction with has been reviewed through routine audit and determined to be an uninsured 
service. 
 
For surgery and procedures not insured by the publically funded system, the anesthetic and 
assistants' fees also are not insured. 
 
Per The Medical Care Insurance Beneficiary and Administrative Regulations, section 10, 
subsection (i):  
 
For the purposes of section 15 of the Act, the following services are uninsured services:  
 
 
(i)  any service that is provided in conjunction with another service that is an uninsured 
 
service. 
 
 
RT 
This service is being recovered as the result of a routine audit pertaining to the billing of a 
technical component.  Within 30 days, please submit documentation demonstrating physician 
ownership of equipment and/or employment of staff.  See PGA contact information in preamble 
above. 
 
 
RU 
This resubmitted claim has been reviewed by Audit.  The routine audit has been completed and 
adjudication made, including any necessary adjustments to your claim, based on the supporting 
documentation provided for review. If dissatisfied with this review by Audit, further review may 
be requested in writing by following the process for requesting further review as outlined in 
detail under the heading "Assessment of Accounts" in the Physician Payment Schedule. 
 
 
RV 
This service is being recovered as a result of a routine or special verification.  The beneficiary 
does not recall, or is disputing, receiving this service.  Within 30 days, please provide a copy of 
the medical record that supports the service billed. 
 
 
RW 
This claim for routine house call surcharge(s) (615A, 915A) has been declined as it appears to be 
billed for non-medically required circumstances.  
 
This code cannot be used for travelling to see patients in their home (such as private or group) 
for convenience, courtesy, or preference by the patient or the physician when no medical 
necessity for the travel exists. If there was a medically required reason for the physician to travel 
to the patient's home, within 30 days, please provide an explanation and submit to PGA; please 
see the preamble for contact information.  
 
 
RX 
Services not performed by the physician personally: 
 
a) This service appears to have been performed by someone other than the physician.  
Therefore, no payment is eligible – see "Services Supervised by a Physician"; or 
 
b) It cannot be determined who performed this service; please submit an explanation 
and/or a copy of the supporting documentation which demonstrates who performed the 
service and submit to PGA; please see the preamble for contact information.  

Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 66
 
The Ministry of Health 
Explanatory Codes For Physicians 
 
«L1:OPHTHALMOLOGY»
 
SA 
6S--A previous examination was provided to this beneficiary by yourself or another physician 
within the designated time span:  
1) Age 18 - 64 minimum time - 24 months;  
2) All other ages - minimum time - 12 months.  
 
If resubmitting, please indicate:  
1) Previous and current complete refractive errors.  
2) Medical factors necessitating current refraction.  
 
Re: "Ophthalmology", item A(c).  
 
 
SB 
170S-171S--included in payment for retinal detachment. Re: Section "S", item B.  
 
 
SC 
12S, 581S, 582S--approved only once within a period of 12 consecutive months for the same 
physician or clinic.  
 
 
SF 
The factors indicated have been reviewed and are not considered sufficient to warrant payment 
of a second refraction within the designated time span.  
 
 
SS 
Coverage for routine examination of the eyes (6S) is limited to those under the age of 18, Social 
Assistance recipients nominated to receive Supplementary Health benefits, recipients of Family 
Health Plan benefits and seniors receiving the Saskatchewan Income Plan supplement. According 
to our information, the patient is not eligible for coverage. 
 
 
«L1:LABORATORY MEDICINE»
 
VB 
Procedure not insured in office practice. Re: Lists 1 and 2.  
 
 
VC 
204-206A--not approved in addition to any other service. Re: Payment Schedule item.  
 
 
VD 
204-206A, 756-758V & 770V-772V --payment includes referral of multiple specimens of the same 
type. Re: Payment Schedule item.  
 
 
VE 
The appropriate Biochemistry Panel Code is approved based on the total number of tests per 
patient. Exceeds maximum number of units paid without an explanation. 
 
 
VH 
Exceeds maximum number of units paid without an explanation. 
 
 
VI 
Multiples of codes 32V plus urinalysis (60V) are being paid at the appropriate number of units for 
the composite code - 33V.  
 
 
VL 
According to information received from Laboratory Licensing, you have not been licensed to 
perform this test. Please review your licence. If any disagreements, please write to:  
 
Laboratory Licensing, Ministry of Health, 3475 Albert Street, Regina, Saskatchewan  S4S 6X6 
lablicensing@health.gov.sk.ca 

Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 67
 
The Ministry of Health 
Explanatory Codes For Physicians 
 
VM 
The code and payment approved is the maximum for the series. 
 
 
VN 
Included in the "composite" paid for the related laboratory procedure.  
 
 
«L1:RADIOLOGY»
 
 
XA 
Radiology is not insured when: 
1) provided in a hospital, or any facility funded by the Ministry of Health.  
2) performed by other than a radiologist.  Re: Section "X" - items 1 and 2.  
 
 
XJ 
Considered an inclusion within the payment for a similar procedure on the same day. If 
resubmitting please clarify. 
 
 
 
«L1:INCOMPLETE OR INCORRECT CLAIMS»
 
 
YA 
Patient's Name--please clarify the full name.  
 
 
YB 
Registration--indicate the complete 9-digit Health Services Number.  
 
 
YC 
Date of Birth--indicate the month and year of birth recorded on the Health Services Card.  
 
 
YD 
Family Head--please indicate the full name and address.  
 
 
YE 
The province code is blank, invalid or not legible. Please provide the necessary information in the 
"REMARKS" area.  
 
 
YF 
THE SIGNATURE BLOCK on this claim is completed differently than what you previously indicated 
to the Ministry of Health.  The acceptable methods are: 
1) Personal signature.  
2) Impress a rubber stamp facsimile of the practitioner's signature  
3) Impress a rubber stamp of the practitioner's name in capital letters.  
4) Hand print the practitioner's name in capital letters.  
5) Delegate a member of your staff to personally sign on the practitioner's behalf.  
 
Prior to resubmission, please complete the signature block by either:  
1) your previously designated method of signing; or  
2) personal signature. 
 
If you wish to change your previously designated method of signing claims, you must first advise 
The Ministry of Health in writing of the specific acceptable method you intend to use in the 
future. 
 
 
YG 
The Out of Province registration number provided on your claim is not correct. Please check your 
records and modify the number, if incorrect. If the number is correct according to your records, 
please indicate this on the claim.   

Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 68
 
The Ministry of Health 
Explanatory Codes For Physicians 
 
YH 
Additional information requested--Please ensure all the following have been provided:  
1) Diagnosis. 
2) Site of lesion or injury. 
3) Cause and site of edema. 
4) Condition requiring the injection. 
 
YI 
Clarification - please clarify the item(s) circled on the claim or recheck the entire claim.  
 
 
YJ 
We cannot interpret the diagnosis. Please explain the term(s) used.  
 
 
YK 
Code and Fee--please indicate the service code and amount charged for each service.  
 
 
YL 
Date of Service--please indicate the proper day, month and year.  
 
 
YM 
Hospital visits--please clarify the date of the first and last visit and the total number of days billed.  
 
 
YN 
Please review this claim. The payment schedule code and/or diagnosis/diagnostic code is not 
consistent with the patient's age and/or sex.  
 
 
YP 
The clinic number is invalid for the submitted dates of service or the hospital days span two 
clinics. Please review the dates of service and clinic number.  
 
 
YR 
Please clarify the name, specialty and initials of the physician who provided each service.  
 
YS 
We are unable to identify who referred the patient. A referring physician's name either has not 
been supplied, or if a name is present on the claim, they cannot be located in our listing of active 
Saskatchewan physicians. If the patient was referred, please resubmit the claim with the full 
name of the physician and the location of their practice.  
 
 
YT 
Please resubmit the claim indicating the hospital admission and discharge dates.  
 
 
YU 
Your claim has been returned because of the omission of one or both of the following items:  
1) Designation of the operative procedure.  
2) The total time when additional time is billed.  
 
 
YV 
Please indicate whether the dental anesthetic was administered in a hospital.  
 
ZA 
The patient identity information on the claim (month or year of birth, sex or surname) does not 
correspond to information on the Health Services Card. Please check the Health Services Card, 
make the claim corrections and resubmit.  
 
 
ZC 
The submitted claim contains invalid data other than patient identification data, e.g. September 
31, the submitted fee at zero dollars, the 13 month, a lower case alpha character, a partially 
blank field as HSN, wrong location of service, a service not allowed for premiums etc. 
 
ZD 
The dates of service or month of birth are invalid. The date of service may be greater than the 
date of computer processing, there are two months of service on the 50 record types with the 
same claim number or the number of hospital visits exceeds the number of days between the 
first and last hospital dates.  

Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 69
 
The Ministry of Health 
Explanatory Codes For Physicians 
 
ZF 
The physician is not eligible to submit for services on the indicated dates of service. 
 
 
ZG 
A premium eligible and non-premium eligible service code cannot be billed on the same claim. 
Please verify your locations of service and resubmit on different claims if applicable.  
 
 
ZH 
Only hospital visits (25 to 28 and 35B) may be billed in the hospital visit area or on a hospital care 
record (57).  Please resubmit other services on a non-hospital visit/procedure record (50).  The 
number of units or number of days billed can never exceed 99 on a computer submission, the 50 
record must precede all 57 records with the same claim number. 
 
ZL 
The submitted referring physician number is invalid or an invalid referring physician number has 
been used for a non-cancer diagnosis or a nurse practitioner has referred to a physician that is not 
a specialist.  Please check the referring physician name and number. 
 
 
ZM 
The claim contains an invalid diagnostic code according to the International Classification of 
Diseases - 9th Revision. Please check the diagnosis, diagnostic code and table of invalid codes.  
 
 
ZN 
The Ministry of Health has received multiple claims with the same clinic, physician, claim and 
Health Services Number. One of the claims is being processed; all other claims with the same 
claim number are being returned.  
 
 
ZP 
An invalid mode of payment or incorrect service code has been used on the claims or mixed 
services are being submitted for an APS claim (eg. 74A (SGI) and 5B or 600B)  
 
 
ZR 
The indicated location of service, service code or time is invalid for a premium payment on this 
date. (See "OUT OF HOURS PREMIUMS" section in Part A of this Payment Schedule).  
 
 
ZS 
This claim was submitted as a Professional Corporation (PC) claim; however no PC information has 
been received or the PC claim is not valid on this date.  
 
ZT 
Please refer to the comment record(s) being returned by MSB for a more detailed explanation.  
 
 
ZW 
The direct input claim cannot be processed. Please resubmit on a regular claim form.  
 
 
ZY 
The direct input claim cannot be processed. Please resubmit with comments or an explanation of 
the service provided. If an operative report or a detailed explanation is required, it should be 
submitted and attached to a regular claim form. 
 
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 70
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BLANK PAGE INTENTIONAL

Looking at this PDF content, I'll apply the tagging conventions systematically. Let me identify the structure and apply the appropriate markers:

«L1:S E C T I O N  A – General Services»

«L2:SGI Medical Driver Fitness Review»

1. The services listed on this page are paid by MSB on an agency basis for SGI.

2. These codes are not eligible for any additional charges i.e., premium(s) or surcharges.

3. All reports must be retained in the patient's file.

4. No additional fee is paid for lab services required for 74A with the exception of 131A.

5. 70A, 71A and 74A are not payable for commercial license renewal.

6. A visit provided on the same day as a 74A is paid by report.

7. 74A includes services described in 70A or 71A

«CODE:70A» Telephone call from an SGI Driver Medical Review Unit or Manager, requesting the physician's clarification of a medical condition and effect on the patient's ability to operate a motor vehicle.

All calls must be recorded on the patient's file chart, including the name of the SGI representative. $30.00 $30.00

«CODE:71A» Written letter or facsimile requested by an SGI Driver Medical Review Unit or Manager, requesting a brief factual statement of the patient's medical condition and effect on the patient's ability to operate a motor vehicle.

• All reports must be retained in the patients file.
• SGI Requested Seizure Follow-up forms are also billable under 71A. $55.00 $55.00

«CODE:74A» Examination and Report requested by the SGI Driver Medical Review Unit requesting the physician's assessment of the patient's ability to operate a motor vehicle. The following forms are billable under this code only:

• SGI Requested Driver's License Medical Report
• Cognitive Assessment Report
• Driver's Psychiatric Examination Report (specialists only)
• Report of Visual Functions (ophthalmologists only) $140.00 $75.00

«CODE:20A» Report requested by the Ministry of Social Services to determine employability, rehabilitation potential, Level of care, or other specified reason. $34.65 $34.65

The 20A and other associated visits and laboratory codes should be submitted with a diagnostic code of Z90 (Examination-Third Party Request from the Ministry of Social Services).

«CODE:37A» Examination and Report required for the purpose of adoption or determining whether a person may become a foster parent -- diagnostic code V70 must be used $64.30 $57.90

«CODE:39A» Rape victim (suspected or actual) – includes: $476.10 $476.10

a) medical history;
b) examination;
c) counselling;
d) all medical documentation; and,
e) initial treatment.

«CODE:40A» Child abuse victim (suspected or actual) – includes: $315.00 $315.00

a) medical history;
b) history of abuse obtained from social worker, police, parents or other individuals;
c) examination;

d) investigation;
e) referral as necessary;
f) counselling and treatment;
g) medical documentation of findings and management

«CODE:~41A» FASD assessment and diagnosis - per 15 minutes or major portion, max of 12 units per patient (3 hours) $45.85 $45.85

1. Clinical evaluation of the patient, review of information and consultation with other providers (verbal and written) for the purpose of Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorder (FASD) - assessment and diagnosis. Includes a review of:

a) birth and prenatal history;
b) medical and surgical histories, including psychiatric and psychological reports;
c) detailed family history focusing on genetic conditions which can cause brain dysfunction;
d) social history, including any social services records, pre-sentence reports, risk assessments, etc.

2. Limited to physicians with appropriate training and expertise in FASD assessment, including:
a) geneticists with expertise in diagnosing birth defects;
b) developmental pediatricians;
c) any physician with training from a recognized training centre for FASD diagnosis (examples: University of Washington, Seattle Washington; Lakeland Centre for Fetal Alcohol Syndrome, Cold Lake, Alberta; and the Motherisk Centre, Toronto).

3. The physician should keep appropriate documentation of time and place.

4. @ Physicians who intend to provide this service should apply to the Saskatchewan Medical Association Tariff Committee to be considered eligible to bill MSB for this service. For the purposes of billing, 41A is payable on the date the approval is granted to the physician. See "Services Billable by Entitlement".

5. This code is not to be used for third party uninsured requests for assessment such as requests from Saskatchewan Justice and others.

«CODE:56A» Report requested by Cancer Agency or Cancer Screening Program $14.85 $14.85

The following are covered under this fee code:

1. Saskatchewan Cancer Agency request for follow-up of registered cancer patient - must be billed with a diagnostic code from 140 to 234

2. Program for the Prevention of Cervical Cancer - must be billed with diagnostic code Z52

3. Screening Program for Breast Cancer - must be billed with diagnostic code Z51

4. Colorectal Cancer Screening Program - must be billed with diagnostic code Z53

«CODE:60A» Required physician reporting forms $14.50 $14.50

The following form is covered under this fee code:
Physician Reporting Form for West Nile Cases -- must be billed with diagnostic code 066

Third party counselling for the provision of Medical Assistance in Dying (MAID) services provided by a willing practitioner

1. Billable on a third party basis when a family member, caregiver, relative, friend, spouse, etc is counselled because of the patient's request for Medical Assistance in Dying (MAID) services.

2. Third party counselling is billable to a maximum of 3 hours per day per patient. More than 3 hours is billable by report with a comment on the electronic claim with the total duration of time spent.

3. Third party counselling claims should be submitted in the name of the patient requesting MAID services (not the family member, relative, caregiver, etc).

4. Diagnosis must be Z37 (third party counselling, MAID).

5. May be billed by any physician.

6. Surcharges are not payable (815A-839A).

7. Per "Documentation Requirements for the Purposes of Billing", all time-based codes must have the start and stop times documented in the medical record.

«CODE:80A» Third Party Counselling – first 15 minutes, includes

a) History review;
b) Counselling;
c) Educational dialogue;
d) Intervention;
e) Record of service provided;
f) Time spent counselling. $55.35 $55.35

«CODE:81A» Third Party Counselling – next 15 minutes or major portion thereof $46.85 $46.85

«L2:Exception Drug Status»

«CODE:153A» Multiple Sclerosis
Payment for the completion and submission of the initial and yearly documentation required by the Saskatchewan Drug Program (SDP) to determine eligibility for Exception Drug Status (EDS) in the treatment of multiple sclerosis.
a) Only one fee is payable every twelve months.
b) Applicable visit fees may be submitted concurrently. $30.40 $30.40

«CODE:154A» Alzheimer's Disease
Payment for the completion and submission of the initial documentation required by the SDP to determine eligibility for Exception Drug Status (EDS) in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease.
a) Follow-up status reports required by the SDP can be done by phone or fax and are billable using code 155A.
b) Applicable visit fees may be submitted concurrently. $30.40 $30.40

«CODE:155A» Alzheimer's Disease
a) follow-up status reports required by the SDP by phone or fax.
b) applicable visit fees may be submitted concurrently. $12.10 $12.10

«CODE:156A» Ankylosing Spondylitis
Payment for the completion and submission of the initial and renewal application form required by the Saskatchewan Drug Plan (SDP) to determine eligibility for Exception Drug Status (EDS) in the treatment of ankylosing spondylitis.
a) Only one fee is payable every (12) twelve months.
b) Applicable visit fee may be submitted concurrently. $30.40 $30.40

«L2:Specified Forms»

«CODE:753A» Physician completion and submission of an application filed with the court under The Mandatory Testing and Disclosure (Bodily Substances) Act -- by report $17.60 $17.60

«CODE:909A» Initiating protocol for the discontinuance of life-support systems following certification of brain death $34.00 $34.00

«L2:Procedures»

Additional payments for diagnostic service excluding ECGs, 0, 10 or 42 day operative procedures performed on patients under one (1) year of age are automatically calculated and paid as explained in Section A.

«CODE:100A» Collection of blood from donor for transfusion $18.40 $18.40 0

«CODE:101A» Phlebotomy for therapeutic reason e.g. polycythemia $18.40 $18.40 0

«CODE:107A» Insertion of IV by physician where a nurse or health care worker is unavailable or unable to start the IV - if procedure is longer than 15 minutes, bill as 918A with explanation. $50.00 $50.00 0

«CODE:108A» Venipuncture - peripheral or central (jugular) for blood collection or phlebotomy by physician where a nurse or health care worker is unavailable or unable to perform the task $22.50 $22.50 0

«CODE:110A» Injections

a) included in visit
b) medication extra
c) intramuscular or subcutaneous $22.00 $22.00 0

«CODE:111A» Injections

a) medication extra
b) not for injection into IV tubing nor for initiation of IV
c) direct intravenous injection of medication $22.00 $22.00 0

«CODE:112A» Injections
a) medication extra -- arterial puncture $22.00 $22.00 D

«CODE:113A» Hyposensitization injections -- each $18.00 $18.00

a) Included in visit
b) Max 3 units per session
c) Up to 9 units per session for venom desensitization IV

«CODE:114A» IVP/IVC injection when performed in the absence of a radiologist $16.30 $16.30 D

«CODE:115A» Aspiration and/or injection of ganglion $31.00 $31.00 0

«CODE:116A» Insertion of subcutaneous contraceptive implant $50.50 $50.50 0 L

«CODE:117A» Removal of subcutaneous contraceptive implant $62.40 $62.40 0 L

«CODE:120A» Bladder catheterization -- urethral $16.50 $16.50 0

«CODE:121A» Bladder catheterization -- other than urethral $11.55 $11.55 0

«CODE:122A» Peritoneal lavage $105.00 $105.00 D

«CODE:123A» Insertion of IUD $56.10 $56.10 0

«CODE:104A» Removal of intrauterine device (IUD)
Note: If attempt at removal of IUD is unsuccessful, only the visit service is payable. $27.50 $27.50 0

«CODE:105A» Removal of intrauterine device (IUD) when string is not visible and requires the use of sterile instruments for intrauterine manipulation (e.g. IUD retrieval hook, grasper, or curette). $44.00 $44.00 0

«CODE:125A» Paracentesis or diagnostic tap -- thorax or abdomen $76.40 $76.40 0

«CODE:126A» Pericardial aspiration -- by any method (17 years of age & older) $168.00 $168.00 0

«CODE:130A» Pericardial aspiration -- by any method (under 17 years of age) $172.70 $172.70 0

«CODE:127A» Lumbar puncture $69.20 $69.20 D L

«CODE:128A» Gastric lavage $17.80 $17.80 0

«CODE:129A» Percutaneous manipulations of gallstone(s) $277.00 $277.00 10 L

«CODE:131A» Submission of Papanicolau smear (females only) $22.00 $22.00 D

«CODE:118A» Pessary Visit -- Initial fitting or review (no tray service) $50.00 $50.00 0 L

«CODE:132A» Relief of fecal impaction -- under general anesthetic $68.80 $68.80 0

«CODE:133A» Pleural punch biopsy -- with or without thoracentesis $38.50 $38.50 D

«CODE:134A» Insertion of central venous catheter $66.00 $66.00 D L

«CODE:135A» Insertion of central venous catheter in infant $136.40 $136.40 D L

«CODE:136A» Insertion of central venous catheter in infant -- under general anesthesia or IV sedation (includes post-op recovery) $164.20 $164.20 D L

«CODE:137A» Percutaneous intravenous central catheter (PICC), composite fee $240.00 0 L

a) Includes vascular access, placement, removal, venography, fluoroscopy and ultrasound.
b) Billable when performed by a specialist in pediatrics, general surgery, anesthesia or internal medicine.

«CODE:140A» Insertion of arterial line for measurement of systemic pressures -- unilateral or bilateral -- adult $42.50 $42.50 D L

«CODE:141A» Insertion of arterial line for measurement of systemic pressures -- unilateral or bilateral -- child $124.10 $124.10 D L

«CODE:150A» Physiotherapy procedures including heat or light lamps, traction $3.40 $3.40 0

«CODE:925A» Intravenous chemotherapy or Remicade treatment $20.00 $20.00 0

«L2:Communicable Disease Services»

«CODE:160A» Diagnostic skin tests (e.g. Schick test; Dick test) -- each $3.10 $3.10 D

«CODE:161A» Immunization -- per injection (included in visit) -- bill units $22.00 $22.00

«CODE:162A» Vaccination and reading $20.00 $20.00 0

«L2:Allergy Diagnosis (Testing)»

«CODE:170A» Scratch test (inhalant/ingestant) - each -- max 35 units per year $3.40 $3.40 D

«CODE:171A» Patch test (contact dermatoses) - each -- max 50 units per year $6.20 $6.20 D

«CODE:172A» Intradermal test - each -- max 20 units per year $7.80 $7.80 D

«CODE:173A» Test for phototoxic or photoallergic reaction under controlled ultraviolet light source (e.g. hot quartz mercury vapor lamp or Woods Blak-Ray light) – each -- maximum 30 units per year $8.40 $8.40 D

«CODE:174A» Allergy Challenge -- patient challenged with an antigen in a graded fashion per complete 15-minute period (repeated spirometry 600D-603D or 610D to 613D can be billed maximum 3 tests) $43.00 $38.80 D

«L2:Total Parenteral Nutrition»

1. When provided by other than the attending physician or surgeon.
2. This service is included in visit/hospital care when provided by the attending physician or surgeon.

«CODE:182A» Consultation and initial set up including CVP line $86.10 $86.10

«CODE:183A» Subsequent care per day $15.50 $15.50

«CODE:184A» Outpatient TPN supervision - not payable with visit, max 2 per week $15.70 $15.70

«L2:Botox Injections»

1. Botox is not insured for cosmetic purposes, migraines, pelvic pain or any other condition other than those listed in item 2.

2. Botox is intended for use in the relief of symptoms resulting from dystonias, other neuromuscular spasticity problems, and hyperhidrosis only.

3. Any other use of Botox requires written prior approval of MSB and the Saskatchewan Medical Association (SMA).

• Anesthetists
• General Surgeons
• Gynecologists
• Internists
• Neurologists
• Ophthalmologists
• Otolaryngologists
• Orthopedic Surgeons
• Physiatrists
• Plastic Surgeons
• Urologists
• Dermatologists

4. @ Others with appropriate training/experience may apply to the Saskatchewan Medical Association Tariff Committee for entitlement.

5. For the purposes of billing, Botox codes are billable on the date that the approval is granted to the physician. See "Services Billable by Entitlement".

6. Only one code from the Botox schedule is billable per patient contact.

7. Botox injections include any EMG control and additional injections within 42 days.

«CODE:190A» Blepharospasm $189.60 $170.70 42

«CODE:191A» Hemifacial spasm $189.60 $170.70 42

«CODE:192A» Extraocular muscle(s) for strabismus or spastic dysphonia, one or more muscles, unilateral or bilateral (previously 473S) $228.90 $206.05 42

«CODE:~193A» Multiple muscle -- bilateral $277.00 $249.25 42

«CODE:~194A» Multiple muscle – unilateral $247.50 $222.75 42

«CODE:~195A» Single muscle -- bilateral $94.40 $84.90 42

«CODE:~196A» Single muscle -- unilateral $62.90 $56.60 42

«CODE:197A» Rectal spasm, anal fissure $63.50 $57.15 42

Endoscopy for achalasia etc. -- see endoscopic codes - Section L

«CODE:~198A» Hyperhidrosis – per side - left or right armpit, bill units $115.20 $103.70 42

a) To initiate billing, two physicians must have diagnosed the patient with hyperhidrosis (e.g. referring physician and consultant, or two family physicians with the second physician confirming the diagnosis)

b) Botox injections are indicated in those cases of hyperhidrosis where conservative measures (e.g. aluminum chloride, iontophoresis, or systemic medications) fail to resolve the problem or where the symptoms of hyperhidrosis are severe enough to give rise to emotional and social, as well as functional problems that impact the patient's quality of life.

c) The treatment includes pre-injection assessment, nerve blocks/local anesthetic, subsequent visits and any further injections within 12 (twelve) weeks.

«CODE:199A» Botox injection of detrusor muscle via cystoscopy for neurogenic or non-neurogenic overactive bladder. $189.60 $170.70 42

«L2:Emergency Resuscitation - "Code" Situations»

APPLIES TO CODES: 220A to 226A – for intensive care in ICU or CCU – see Section H

1. These service codes are all inclusive, for medically required attendance because of code situations involving resuscitation.

2. Certain procedures can be billed during a period of 220A-226A in the same manner as they can be billed during a period of 335H - 339H (see Section H).

For example if closed chest drainage takes 15 minutes, code 95L can be billed, but that 15-minute period should not also be billed as a 220A-226A).

3. For a claim to be processed, the physician must provide details of:
a) the clinical condition necessitating continuous attendance;
b) the treatment or care provided;
c) time when continuous attendance on patient started and was completed.

4. Consultation or assessment rendered before or after provision of resuscitative care or neonatal intensive care may be claimed on a fee-for-service basis, but not when claiming Intensive (Critical, Ventilatory or Comprehensive) Care per diem fees.

5. When claiming Critical, Ventilatory, or Comprehensive Care per diem fees, no other Intensive Care codes may be claimed by the same physician(s)

6. May be billed with the appropriate emergency or special call surcharge.

«L3:Life Threatening Emergency Situation»

Being in constant attendance for the time billed to provide resuscitation in an emergency situation:

a) cardiac arrest;
b) multiple systems major trauma;
c) cardio respiratory failure;
d) resuscitation of newborn;
e) severe shock; and,
f) coma.

The specific elements are those of an assessment, including immediate crisis related examination, ongoing monitoring of the patient's condition and the usual resuscitative procedures as required:

a) arterial and/or venous catheters;
b) blood gases;
c) cardioversion;
d) cutdowns;
e) CVP lines;
f) defibrillation;
g) endotracheal intubation;
h) intravenous lines;
i) nasogastric tubes;
j) pharmacological agents;
k) pressure infusion sets;
l) tracheal toilet; and,
m) urinary catheters.

Time is to be measured as the period of constant attendance, excluding time required for any separately billable intervention (service). If a physician starts billing codes 220A to 223A, the resuscitation should finish with this series of codes.

Amount payable per physician per Life Threatening Emergency situation for the first two physicians for which a claim is submitted and paid

«CODE:220A» -- first 15 minutes $123.20 $123.20

«CODE:221A» -- second 15 minutes $61.60 $61.60

«CODE:222A» -- after first 30 minutes -- per 15 minutes or major portion thereof $56.10 $56.10

«CODE:223A» Amount payable per physician per life threatening emergency for third and subsequent physicians for which a claim is submitted and paid, per 15 minutes or major portion thereof $56.10 $56.10

«L3:Other Life Threatening Resuscitation»

1. Other Resuscitation - is different from Life Threatening Emergency Situation only in that it applies to providing resuscitation in emergency situations other than those listed under 220A-223A and only includes the following resuscitative procedures:

a) arterial and/or venous catheters;
b) blood gases;
c) cutdowns;
d) CVP lines;
e) intravenous lines;
f) nasogastric tubes with or without lavage;
g) pressure infusion sets and pharmacological agents;
h) tracheal toilet; and,
i) urinary catheters.

2. Time is to be measured as the period of constant attendance excluding time required for any separately billable intervention (service). If a physician starts billing codes 224A to 226A, the resuscitation should finish with this series of codes.

3. Amount payable per physician per Other Resuscitation for the first two physicians for which a claim is submitted and paid.

«CODE:224A» -- first 15 minutes $61.60 $61.60

«CODE:225A» -- after first 15 minutes -- per 15 minutes or major portion thereof $56.10 $56.10

«CODE:226A» Amount payable per physician per other resuscitation for the third and subsequent physicians for which a claim is submitted and paid -- per 15 minutes or major portion thereof $56.10 $56.10

«L2:Specimen collection and referral»

To be sent for a special test, when it is the only charge made:

«CODE:204A» Urine Collection and referral of specimen(s) $7.50 $7.50 D

«CODE:205A» Blood Collection and referral of specimen(s) $7.50 $7.50 D

«CODE:206A» Other Collection and referral of specimen(s) $7.50 $7.50 D

«CODE:207A» Bone Marrow -- aspiration $53.55 $53.55 D L

«CODE:208A» Bone Marrow -- aspiration and needle biopsy $76.20 $76.20 D L

«CODE:209A» Bone Marrow -- interpretation $29.20 $29.20 D

«CODE:210A» Examination of blood smear and written clinical report -- by internist or pediatrician with special training in hematology $21.55 D

«L2:Cardiac Catheterization»

«CODE:300A» Right heart catheterization - to include catheter insertion and any or all of RA, RV, PA, and PAW pressures. Not to be billed during a routine coronary angiogram $92.80 $92.80 D H

«CODE:303A» Left heart catheterization -- retrograde includes catheter insertion $132.50 $132.50 D H

«CODE:304A» Transeptal heart catheterization $158.00 $158.00 D H

«CODE:306A» Transvenous endocardial biopsy (right or left) -- independent procedure $336.40 $302.80 0 H

«CODE:307A» Transvenous endocardial biopsy (right or left) when done in conjunction with any catheterization procedure -- add $102.00 $91.80 0

«CODE:310A» Dye and/or thermodilution curve studies - includes all curves obtained from a patient regardless of method $81.60 $81.60 D

«CODE:311A» Oximetry during cardiac catheterization $81.60 $81.60 D

«CODE:613A» Endocardial mapping $210.00 D H

«CODE:614A» Intracardiac electrocardiography and/or atrial pacing $89.70 D

«CODE:316A» Insertion and measurements with Swan Ganz Catheter -- to include all pressures, dye or thermodilution curves, recordings and interpretations $105.00 $94.50 D

Angiography procedures for non-radiologists – use Section A codes
(Angiography procedures for radiologists - use Section X codes)

«CODE:443A» Angiography --
angiocardiography -- right and/or left side $107.00 $107.00 D H

«CODE:444A» Angiography --
extremities, percutaneous-- unilateral $98.90 $98.90

«CODE:445A» Aortography --
any method when sole procedure $134.60 $134.60 D H

«CODE:446A» Aortography --
with selective catheterization of each additional artery to a maximum of 3, add $22.45 $22.45 D H

«CODE:545A» Aortography --
when done as part of 447A and/or 443A/145C, add $68.80 $68.80 D H

«CODE:447A» Coronary Angiography --
to include right and left coronaries $178.40 $178.40 D H

«CODE:548A» Coronary Angiography -- with selective catheterization of venous and/or arterial bypass grafts each to a maximum of 3, add $81.60 $81.60 D H

«CODE:648A» Coronary Angiography -- with ergonovine stimulation, add $78.55 $78.55 D H

Looking at these 10 pages, I'll tag them according to the Saskatchewan Payment Schedule instructions:

--- Page 81 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 81
 
  
«L1:S E C T I O N  A – General Services»  
Specialist 
General 
Practitioner 
Class 
Anes 
 
Clinical procedures listed below associated with diagnostic radiology 
may be charged in addition to the payments listed in Section X. 
 
«CODE:331A» Intracoronary thrombolytic therapy  
$381.25 
 
0 
 
«CODE:328A» Transluminal angioplasty -- 
coronary 
$509.80* 
 
0 
 
«CODE:329A» Transluminal angioplasty -- 
each additional stenosis (maximum one 
per arterial branch) -- bill units 
$198.80* 
 
0 
 
«CODE:330A» Transluminal angioplasty -- 
peripheral 
$264.20 
 
0 
H 
«CODE:335A» Transluminal angioplasty -- 
insertion of coronary artery stent(s) 
associated with 328A (any number), add 
$152.90 
 
 
0 
 
«CODE:332A» Transluminal angioplasty --  
pulmonary valve or artery 
$509.80 
 
10 
 
«CODE:333A» Transluminal angioplasty -- 
pulmonary valve or artery where 
followed by corrective surgery within 24 
hours 
$254.90 
 
10 
 
«CODE:334A» Transluminal angioplasty --  
aorta or aortic valve 
$482.45* 
 
0 
 
«CODE:336A» Transluminal angioplasty --  
subclavian artery 
$263.55 
 
0 
H 
«CODE:337A» Stent placement following angioplasty of peripheral, renal or 
subclavian vessels – add to appropriate angioplasty code – each vessel 
– bill units 
$76.25 
 
0 
H 
«CODE:338A» Selective Catheter Embolization 
$263.55 
 
0 
M 
«CODE:493A» Transcatheter closure of ductus arteriosus 
$560.80* 
 
0 
M 
 
* Post-angioplasty care for elective procedures (328A, 329A 334A and 
493A) is included in the payment for these procedures. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Procedures under fluoroscopic, CT or ultrasonic guidance for non-
radiologists - use Section X 
 
«CODE:406A» Percutaneous nephrostomy with nephrogram 
$330.00 
 
0 
L 
«CODE:407A» Manipulation of peritoneal dialysis catheter 
$62.80 
$62.80 
 
 
«CODE:460A» Non-palpable breast lesion - needle localization provided by surgeon -- 
bill units 
$74.70 
$74.70 
D 
L 
«CODE:412A» Percutaneous fallopian tube cannulation and dilatation -- with 
selective salpingography, unilateral or bilateral 
$140.15 
$140.15 
10 
L 
«CODE:463A» Injection of a sinus tract 
$53.30 
 
D 
L 
«CODE:403A» Percutaneous intra-abdominal drainage 
$192.10 
 
0 
L 
«CODE:462A» Sialography 
$74.90 
$74.90 
D 
L 
«CODE:661A» Percutaneous insertion of pleural catheter for closed chest drainage -- 
bill units 
$110.00 
$110.00 
0 
L 
 
 


--- Page 82 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 82
 
 
«L1:S E C T I O N  A – General Services»  
Specialist 
Class 
Anes 
 
«L2:Echocardiography»
 
1. # 
Echocardiography is an insured service when it is provided by a physician 
 
who is listed by the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Saskatchewan as 
 
having qualified to receive payment.  
2. Interpretation of multiple echocardiograms on a patient, except Doppler 
Studies for patients under 17 years of age, by same physician or clinic within a 
period of one year are paid at a reduced rate.  
3. Technical service is paid only if the physician owns the instrument and employs 
the staff who are performing the service (if not performed by the physician 
personally). See "Definitions" (19) and "Services Supervised by a Physician" 
4. The technical fees are paid at 100%.  
5. The first echo of any type performed starts the series for that patient.  
6. Although the physician may not be present for the entire exam, it is expected 
that they will be readily available when tests are being done.  
7. Serial echocardiograms provided to patients receiving cardio-toxic oncology 
medications at the request of the Cancer Agency may be billed without limit 
 
 
Example: 
 
 
Date of 
Service: 
Claim: 
Service Provided: 
April 30, 2010 
321A 
Interpretation of M Mode & 2D echo 
May 15, 2010 
521A 
Interpretation of M Mode & 2D echo 
July 12, 2010 
533A 
Interpretation of M Mode, 2D & Doppler echo 
February 2, 2011 
530A & 531A 
Technical & interpretation of M Mode & 2D echo 
March 6, 2011 
No fee payable 
Interpretation of M Mode & 2D echo 
May 4, 2011 
321A 
Interpretation of M Mode & 2D echo (start of new 
series) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«L3:M Mode and Two-Dimensional (2-D) same day»
 
 
 
«CODE:~320A» -- technical 
- first 
$55.00 
D 
 
«CODE:~520A» -- technical 
- second 
$55.00 
D 
 
«CODE:~530A» -- technical 
- third and fourth, each 
$55.00 
D 
 
«CODE:~321A» -- interpretation 
- first 
$77.10 
D 
 
«CODE:~521A» -- interpretation 
- second 
$38.50 
D 
 
«CODE:~531A» -- interpretation 
- third and fourth, each 
$19.30 
D 
 
 
«L3:Doppler study, including M Mode plus two-dimensional studies on same day»
 
 
«CODE:~322A» -- technical 
- first 
- 17 years of age and older 
$80.00 
D 
 
«CODE:~522A» -- technical 
- second 
- 17 years of age and older 
$80.00 
D 
 
«CODE:~532A» -- technical 
- third and fourth, each 
- 17 years of age and older 
$80.00 
D 
 
«CODE:~556A» -- technical 
 
- under 17 years 
$80.00 
D 
L 
«CODE:~323A» -- interpretation  
- first 
- 17 years of age and older 
$110.10 
D 
 
«CODE:~523A» -- interpretation 
- second 
- 17 years of age and older 
$77.10 
D 
 
«CODE:~533A» -- interpretation  
- third and fourth, each 
- 17 years of age & older 
$55.10 
D 
 
«CODE:~557A» -- interpretation  
 
- under 17 years 
$110.10 
D 
L 
 
«L3:Serial echocardiograms of patients receiving cardiotoxic oncology medication»
«CODE:~535A» -- technical 
$80.00 
D 
 
«CODE:~536A» -- interpretation 
$110.10 
D 
 


--- Page 83 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 83
 
  
«L1:S E C T I O N  A – General Services»  
Specialist 
Class 
Anes 
 
 
 
«L3:Transesophageal echocardiogram»
 
1. To include insertion of transducer and interpretation  
2. Within one year at same office or institution the first and second 
transesophageal echoes are paid at 100%, the third is paid at 25% and for 
remainder no fee can be charged. 
 
«CODE:~324A» -- first and second 
$168.00 
D 
M 
«CODE:~534A» -- third 
$42.00 
D 
M 
 


--- Page 84 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 84
 
 
«L1:S E C T I O N  A – General Services»  
Specialist 
General 
Practitioner  
 
 
 
 
 
«L2:Geriatric Assessment Unit»
 
 
«CODE:600A» Payment for assessment of patients attending Geriatric Assessment/Rehab Unit 
$13.30 
$13.30 
 
 
 
 
 
1. Physician must be physically present to consult and review patients as 
necessary. Documentation required for significant change orders only.  
2. Two per patient per 7 day period 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«L2:Group Counselling (instructional time only)»
 
 
 
1. Group Counselling of 5 or more patients where the objective is to provide 
medical expertise regarding the patients' condition, to be billed in the name of 
one patient.  
2. Claim must include a note or comment indicating the number of patients 
involved and the topic.  Per "Documentation Requirements for the Purposes of 
Billing", all time-based codes must have the start and stop times recorded. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:680A» Group counselling -- initial 15 minutes 
$65.45 
$65.45 
«CODE:681A» Group counselling -- additional complete 15 minute units (to a maximum of 3 units) 
$65.45 
$65.45 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:615A» House Call Surcharge -- not specially called 
$26.60 
$26.60 
«CODE:915A» House Call Surcharge -- home care of cancer patient registered by the 
Saskatchewan Cancer Agency 
$36.85 
$36.85 
 
 
 
 
 
The intent of payment under surcharge codes 615A and 915A is for a visit to a 
patient at home (not special care homes), where the visit is not initiated by the 
patient, but where the physician judges that a visit is required, e.g. a follow-up visit 
for a condition seen previously, or a periodic visit for a chronic condition as in the 
case of a house-bound patient. 
 
 
 
 
 
Payment will be made for the examination and/or procedure provided plus either of 
the surcharges 615A or 915A.  Per "Documentation Requirements for the Purposes 
of Billing" the time and location of service must be documented in the medical 
record. 
 
 
 
 
 


--- Page 85 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 85
 
 
«L1:S E C T I O N  A – General Services»  
 
 
 
«L2:Special Care Home Management (SCHM) - 627A, 628A, 629A»
 
The routine continuous management (both indirect and direct) of patients in special care homes. Maximum of one (1) 
payment by any physician every 14 days for either indirect care or direct care.  
 
To facilitate appropriate payments: When direct care is billed in addition to and following indirect care in the same 14 
day period, indirect care is paid and direct care (628A) converts to 629A – Special Care Home Management Conversion. 
 
For the purpose of Special Care Home Management, non-urgent patient care excludes special calls (i.e. 
urgent/emergent).  Where a physician visits a patient on a special call basis, payment will be at the special call rates 
depending upon the time of day.  Special call payments are claimable when a physician attends a patient on a priority 
basis, and the visit causes a degree of disruption of work or of out-of-hours activity, and travel (except in the case of 
additional patients seen). 
 
As per best practice, special care home management is expected to include at least one direct patient care visit per year. 
 
 
To initiate billing of these codes: 
1. The physician's first SCHM fee claims for the patient must include the comment: "will be providing continuous 
care".  
2. Subsequent (after 14 days) SCHM fee claims must be consecutive and continuous for the same patient by the 
same physician or clinic and will not require a comment.  
3. If a different physician (from a different clinic) is temporarily providing management of special care home patients 
on behalf of the most responsible physician, and claiming SCHM fee codes for those patients, the claim(s) must 
include the comment: "Covering for Dr. first name; last name". If a different physician (from the same clinic) is 
temporarily providing management of special care home patients on behalf of the most responsible physician, and 
claiming SCHM fee codes for those patients, the claim(s) do not require an additional comment. 
 
Patients in: 
1. Special care homes as defined in The Facility Designation Regulations for patients receiving: 
a) Convalescent care 
b) Long-term care or long-stay care 
c) Palliative care 
d) Respite Care 
2. Hospitals* or health centres as defined in The Facility Designation Regulations for patients receiving: 
a) Convalescent care 
b) Long-term care or long-stay care 
c) Palliative care 
d) Respite Care 
e) Level 4 care 
 
*Community, northern, regional, provincial, rehabilitation or district as defined by The Facility Designation Regulations.  
Personal Care Homes as defined in The Personal Care Homes Act remain excluded from payment under this code. 
 
Legislation can be found at the following links:   
http://www.qp.gov.sk.ca/documents/English/Regulations/Regulations/R8-2R6.pdf 
 
http://www.qp.gov.sk.ca/documents/English/Statutes/Statutes/P6-01.pdf 
 
 


--- Page 86 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 86
 
 
«L1:S E C T I O N  A – General Services»  
Specialist 
General 
Practitioner 
 
«CODE:627A» Indirect Patient Care for Special Care Home Patients  
$36.45 
$36.45 
 
This fee is for the bi-weekly continuous management of non-urgent indirect patient 
care to evaluate the patient's condition and to provide advice as necessary to the 
nursing/facility staff concerning the routine management of the patient. 
 
 
 
For the purposes of billing 627A, a facility visit is not required.  The expectation is that 
indirect patient care is provided during regular business hours (i.e. excluding evenings, 
weekends and statutory holidays) 
 
 
 
This service includes all necessary non-acute indirect patient care: 
a) Medication refills; 
b) Routine ordering and/or reviewing test results;  
c) Routine advice to family members/caregivers;  
d) Monitoring Anticoagulant Therapy (763A); 
e) All discussions with the staff of the facility related to the patient's care; and 
f) 
All telephone calls to/from the staff of the facility, patient's relative(s) or 
patient's representative related to the patient's routine care. 
 
NOTE: Does not include Telephone Calls/Facsimile/Email on behalf of a Palliative 
patient—793A billable in addition to 627A). 
 
 
 
The fee is only payable for weeks in which continuous management of indirect patient 
care has been provided (i.e., the physician is the most responsible physician) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:628A» Direct Patient Care for Special Care Home Patients 
$91.40 
$91.40 
 
This fee is for a non-urgent medically necessary visit to evaluate the patient's condition 
and to provide advice as necessary to the patient and/or the nursing/facility staff 
concerning the routine management of the patient 
 
 
 
1. A face-to-face patient/physician encounter must be made and must include: 
a) Relevant functional enquiry; 
b) Assessment; 
c) Physical examination (if indicated); 
d) Necessary treatment;  
e) Advice to the nursing/facility staff; and 
f) 
Record of service provided. 
 
 
 
2. This service also includes all necessary non-urgent indirect patient care: 
a) Medication refills; 
b) Routine ordering and/or reviewing test results; 
c) Routine advice to family members/caregivers; 
d) Monitoring Anticoagulant Therapy (763A) 
e) Medication reviews; 
f) 
All discussions with the staff of the facility related to the patient's care; and 
g) All  telephone  calls  to/from  the  staff  of  the  facility, patient's relative(s) or 
patient's representative. 
  
NOTE: Does not include Telephone Calls/Facsimile/Email on behalf of a Palliative 
Patient—793A billable in addition to 628A. 
 
 
 
The fee is only payable for weeks in which direct patient care has been provided. 
 
 


--- Page 87 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 87
 
 
«L1:S E C T I O N  A – General Services»  
Specialist 
General 
Practitioner 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:629A» Special Care Home Management (SCHM) Conversion – FOR MSB USE ONLY 
$54.95 
$54.95 
 
 
 
 
 
There may be instances when direct care is provided following indirect care within 
the same 14 day billing period. Ideally, only direct care will be billed (as direct care 
includes indirect care).  However, there may be instances when both indirect and 
direct care fee codes are submitted to MSB in the same 14 day billing period.  In these 
instances for the purposes of payment only: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. The indirect patient care code will remain as billed to signal the beginning of 
the 14 day billing period;   
 
2. The direct patient care code will automatically convert to 629A – Special 
Care Home Management Conversion and pay $36.00 – the difference 
between Direct and Indirect care.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- Page 88 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 88
 
  
«L1:S E C T I O N  A – General Services»  
 
 
«L2:Surcharge – Special Call / Emergency / Hospital Visit / House Call»
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
Payment for a special call will be made only if the call is initiated by the patient, or someone other than the 
physician, on the patient's behalf.  
2. 
Special call payments are claimable when a physician attends a patient on a priority basis, and the visit causes 
a degree of disruption of work or of out-of-hours activity, and travel (except in the case of additional patients 
seen). When more than one patient is attended, the surcharge for "additional patient" would apply. Please note - 
you cannot bill for additional patients seen from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. weekdays. Payment for a special call does 
not apply where a physician is specially called to another location in the hospital or a health centre when they are 
already in the building. Surcharges may apply to a service at:  
 
a) the patient's home;  
b) hospital out-patient or emergency department;  
c) Special care home;  
d) physician's office when the physician is called back from some other place;  
e) other locations. 
3. 
Payment will be made for the examination and/or procedure provided plus the appropriate surcharge. 
4. 
Where a surcharge is billed in connection with a major surgical procedure, fracture, dislocation or delivery, one 
surcharge is payable per case per physician.  
5. 
Special call services are categorized by time of day.  
6. 
"Weekend" refers to the period from 5:00 p.m. on Friday to midnight on Sunday. "Statutory Holiday" refers to 
the entire 24-hour period of the specific day.  
7. 
The statutory holidays in each year are: New Year's Day, Good Friday, Family Day, Victoria Day, Canada Day, 
Saskatchewan Day, Labour Day, Thanksgiving Day, Remembrance Day, Christmas Day and Boxing Day. If any of 
these days fall on Saturday or Sunday, they will be observed as stated in the Physicians' Newsletter.  
8. 
Surcharges are NOT paid in the following circumstances:  
a) Where by prior arrangement, a patient may go to the out-patient department of a hospital, in lieu of an 
office visit; 
b) Special call initiated by the physician (except the house call surcharges 615A or 915A); 
c) With another surcharge: 615A, 700A, 701A, 721A, 815A, 816A, 817A, 818A, 819A, 836A, 837A, 838A, 839A, 
or 915A. 
d) With codes 41A, 80A, 81A, 153A-155A, 184A, 190A-199A, 600A, 627A-629A, 680A, 681A, 708A-718A, 725A, 
726A, 727A, 753A, 761A-769A, 790A-795A, 796A-797A, 770A, 52B-53B, 57B, 60B-62B, 64B-68B, 200B,  
205B, 206B, 207B, 30D, 31D, 32D, 130D, 131D, 145D, 278D, 279D, 281D-291D, 320D, 43E, 400H-424H, 
667H, 80J, 81J, 278K, 279K, 31M, 260P and 300T.  These codes include all services rendered as well as any 
travel; 
e) With hospital day care items, e.g. 25 to 28 section B to T, 35B; 
f) 
With emergency medicine visits (73B & 85B);  
g) SGI Medical Driver Fitness and Review (codes 70A to 74A); 
h) Extra patient surcharges are not paid with codes 335H to 339H. Initial patient surcharges paid only once 
per patient per day. 
9. 
Per "Documentation Requirements for the Purposes of Billing", the time and location of service must be 
documented in the medical record. 
 


--- Page 89 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 89
 
 
«L1:S E C T I O N  A – General Services»  
Specialist 
General  
Practitioner 
«CODE:700A» Statutory Holiday Hospital Care Surcharge 
$12.10 
$12.10 
 
a) This surcharge is payable when a hospital care visit (25 to 28B to T; 35B) is made 
on a statutory holiday.  
b) Billed in addition to the hospital care visit, it should be billed at the same time 
as the hospital care visit.  
c) 700A is not paid on a statutory holiday when it falls on a Saturday or Sunday, it 
is paid on the day designated in lieu instead. 
 
 
«CODE:701A» Saturday and Sunday Hospital Care Surcharge 
$12.10 
$12.10 
 
a) This surcharge is payable when a hospital care visit (25 to 28 B to T; 35B) is 
made on a Saturday or Sunday.  
b) Must be billed in addition to the hospital care visit and it should be billed at the 
same time as the hospital care visit.  
 
 
 «CODE:721A» Emergency Surcharge -- day or night -- any day – see preamble  
$97.70 
$97.70 
 
a) This surcharge is payable where a physician travels to respond immediately to a 
stat call involving a life-threatening situation and provides immediate care.  
b) May be billed in addition to an appropriate assessment and/or procedure. 
 
 
 
c) Note: Surcharge 721A is not payable when the patient is already hospitalized. 
d) Not payable in addition to any other surcharge – see BU explanatory code or 
"Special Call/Surcharge" policy, item 8 c) 
e) Per Documentation Requirements for the Purposes of Billing, the time and 
location of service must be documented in the medical record. 
 
 
 
«L3:Hospital Discharge»
 
 
«CODE:725A» Hospital discharge & documentation: 
a) Payable once per discharge of formally admitted hospital in-patients to the 
physician responsible for discharging the patient; 
b) Must be a location of service 2; and, 
c) Billed on the date of discharge from the hospital. 
$19.50 
$19.50 
 
 
 
 
 
«L3:Surcharges – Special Calls – please see preamble on previous page»
Per Documentation Requirements for the Purposes of Billing, the time and location 
of service must be documented in the medical record. 
 
 
 
«L4:Weekdays»
 
 
«CODE:815A» Surcharge --  first person seen only  
8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. 
$46.85 
$46.85 
«CODE:817A» Surcharge --  first patient seen  
5:00 p.m. to 12:00 a.m. (Mon - Thur) 
$68.65 
$68.65 
«CODE:837A» Surcharge --  each additional patient seen 
5:00 p.m. to 12:00 a.m. (Mon - Thur) 
$33.90 
$33.90 
«CODE:819A» Surcharge --  first patient seen 
12:00 a.m. to 8:00 a.m. 
$159.70 
$159.70 
«CODE:839A» Surcharge --  each additional patient seen  
12:00 a.m. to 8:00 a.m. 
$46.00 
$46.00 
 
«L4:Weekends and Statutory Holiday»
 
 
«CODE:816A» Surcharge --  first patient seen  
8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. 
$61.95 
$61.95 
«CODE:836A» Surcharge --  each additional patient seen  
8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. 
$30.90 
$30.90 
«CODE:818A» Surcharge --  first patient seen  
5:00 p.m. to Midnight (Fri - Sun) 
$83.60 
$83.60 
«CODE:838A» Surcharge --  each additional patient seen   
5:00 p.m. to Midnight (Fri - Sun) 
$41.60 
$41.60 
«CODE:819A» Surcharge --  first patient seen  
12:00 a.m. to 8:00 a.m. 
$159.70 
$159.70 
«CODE:839A» Surcharge --  each additional patient seen  
12:00 a.m. to 8:00 a.m. 
$46.00 
$46.00 


--- Page 90 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 90
 
 
«L1:S E C T I O N  A – General Services»  
 
 
 
«L2:Pediatric Age Supplement for Procedural Fees»
• 
This supplement includes all diagnostic, 0, 10 or 42 day procedure(s) including applicable section W and 
X code, surgical assistant and anesthetic payment (codes 94H to 161H, 220H & 500H to 505H). 
• 
This supplement excludes ECGS (30D, 31D, 32D). 
 
1. You are not required to submit any codes or indicators to obtain this supplement. MSB will generate the 
payment of this supplement automatically and report the payment on your pay list or paid files using the 
total premium amount field or column at the following rates: 
 
a) patients less than 31 days of age, add 50%  
-- maximum of $1500 
 
b) patients less than 91 days of age but older than 30 days, add 25%  
-- maximum of $1500 
 
c) patients less than 1 year of age but older than 90 days, add 10%  
-- maximum of $1000 
 
2. NOTE: Pediatric Supplements are based on the value of the diagnostic service, 0, 10 or 42 day procedure(s), 
surgical assist payment and the Anesthetic payment (codes 500H to 505H only) (excluding all premiums and 
surcharges).  
 
 
 
«L2:Pediatric Weight Supplement for Procedural Fees»
• 
This supplement includes all diagnostic, 0, 10 or 42 day procedure(s) including applicable section W and 
X codes in the case of the attending physician; the surgical assist payment in the case of the surgical 
assistant; and the anesthetic payment (codes 500H to 505H only) in the case of the anesthetist.  
• 
This supplement excludes ECGS (30D, 31D, 32D). 
• 
You are required to submit the following codes to obtain the weight supplement: 
«CODE:893A» Patients greater than 30 days of age, less than 91 days and less 
than 3 kg in body weight  
-- maximum of $1500 
25% of applicable fee 
 
«CODE:894A» Patients greater than 90 days of age and less than 3 kg in body 
weight 
-- maximum of $1500 
40% of applicable fee 
 
«CODE:895A» Patients greater than 90 days of age and less than 6 kg in body 
weight  
-- maximum of $1500 
15% of applicable fee 
 
 
1. Pediatric Weight Supplements are based on the value of the procedures listed above. In all cases time of day 
premiums and surcharges are excluded from the calculation of the supplement. If applicable bill as one of 
the above codes with the correct calculated value (amount to be paid times the appropriate percentage) 
and indicate the weight of the patient in a comment.  
 
2. The automatically generated age and billed weight pediatric supplements for patients under 1 year of age 
cannot exceed the following: 
 
 
For patients less than 3 kg - 50% to a max of $1500  
a) auto generated 50% for patients under 30 days of age - no submission required,  
b) auto generated 25% for patients greater than 30 days and less than 91 days of age requires 
submission of 893A (25%),  
c) auto generated 10% for patients greater than 90 days of age and less than one year of age requires 
submission of 894A (40%).  
 
 
For patients greater than 3 kg and less than 6 kg - 25% to a max of $1500  
a) auto generated 25% for patients greater than 30 days and less than 90 days of age - no submission 
required,  
b) auto generated 10% for patients greater than 90 days and less than one year of age requires 
submission of 895A (15%).  
 
3. For patients greater than one year of age and less than 6 kg in weight will be given consideration by report.  
 
a) Please submit separately to the Medical Consultant.

«L1:SECTION A – General Services»

Pediatric Visit Age Supplement for patients 0 to 5 years of age:

1. These supplements provide the physician with increased compensation when they provide an eligible visit service for a patient under 6 years of age.

2. Eligible visit services include codes 3 to 11 sections C to T inclusive, 3B, 4B, 5B, 9B, 11B, 15B, 55B, 73B, 85B, 12C/13C, 14C, 14D, 13E 38G, 39G, 14K, 15K, 14O, 12S, 9X and 10X. Other services are not eligible for this supplement.

3. You are not required to submit any codes or indicators to obtain this supplement. MSB will generate the payment of this supplement automatically and report the payment on your pay list or paid files in the total premium amount field or column at the following rates:

a) visit supplement for patient 2 to 5 years of age -- additional 20%

b) visit supplement for patients less than 2 years of age -- additional 35%

Specialist Visit Supplement for patients 65 years of age and older:

1. These supplements provide the physician with increased compensation when providing an eligible visit service for a patient 65 years of age or older.

2. Eligible visit services include codes 3_, 5_, 7_, 8_, 9_, 10_, and 11_ in sections C to T and 12S, 14D, 12E, 14K, 14O and 15K.  Any other services are not eligible for this supplement.   

3. You are not required to submit any codes or indicators to obtain this supplement. MSB will generate the payment of this supplement automatically and report the payment on your pay list or paid files using the total premium amount field or column at the following rates:

a) visit supplement for patients 65 to 74 years of age -- additional 15%

b) visit supplement for patients 75 years of age and older -- additional 25%

NOTE: Specialist Age Supplements are based on the value of the visit excluding other premiums and surcharges.

«L2:Out-of-Hours Premiums»

1. The out-of-hours premium provides the physician with increased compensation when they perform most services in a non-office environment between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. weekdays or anytime on a weekend or statutory holiday.  

2. The service must be provided in a location other than the office, or an alternate office, to be eligible. Services not eligible for an out-of-hours premium include: 
a) hospital visits (700A, 701A, 25 to 28B to T, 35B, 52B, 53B);  
b) surcharges, i.e. 815A to 839A, 615A, 721A, 915A;  
c) emergency room coverage services, i.e. 708A to 718A;  
d) special care homes, i.e. 627A-629A;  
e) lab services;  
f) services always done in the office, i.e. 320A, 322A, 520A, 522A, 530A, 532A, 535A, 556A, 4B, 207B, 4C, 30D, 32D, 50D, 54D, 65D, 142D, 267D, 269D, 271D, 276D, 320D, 401D, 897L, 899L, 338P, 438P, 439P, 109Q, 29R, 402R, 404R, 406R, 15S, 40S, 45S, 181S, 301S, 535S, 579S, 651S, 653S, 582S, 96T and 443T, 260P, 300T, 13G; and 
g) other service, ie: 41A, 56A, 60A, 65A, 70A-74A, 153A-155A, 184A, 190A-198A, 600A, 680A, 681A, 725A, 726A, 727A, 732A, 734A, 753A, 761A-769A, 790A-795A, 796A-797A, 770A, 57B, 60B-62B, 64B-68B, 145D, 121D, 123D, 124D, 128D-132D, 278D, 279D, 281D-291D, 400H-424H, 540H, 545H, 580H, 585H, 80J, 81J, 278K, 279K, 679K, 580L, 180M, 580N, 580P, 581P, 400R, 500R, 580R.

3. Services must start in the time period 5:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. or anytime on a weekend or statutory holiday to qualify for the out-of-hours premium.  

4. Out-of-hours premium for obstetrical delivery is paid if the time of delivery falls between 5:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. weekdays or anytime on a weekend or statutory holiday.

5. The out-of-hours premium will apply to time units (e.g. H & J codes) extending beyond 7:00 a.m. as long as the service began within the 5:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. time period or anytime on a weekend or statutory holiday.

6. An out-of-hours premium may be billed for services in locations of 2, 3, 4 or 5:  
a) Where an out-of-hours premium applies to these services at those locations for the 5:00 p.m. to midnight or 7:00 a.m. to midnight on weekends and statutory holidays, they must be billed with a location of service of B (in-hospital), C (out-patient), D (home) or E (other), respectively.  
b) Where an out-of-hours premium applies to these services at those locations for the midnight to 7:00 a.m., they must be billed with a location of service of K (in-hospital), M (out-patient), P (home) or T (other), respectively.  

7. An out-of-hours premium starting before midnight (5p.m. to midnight) and running into the next day will be paid at the before midnight rate.  

8. Effective April 1, 2012, the rates are 50% for 5 p.m. to midnight weekdays, weekends and statutory holidays; 7:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. weekends and statutory holidays, and 100% for midnight to 7:00 a.m. weekdays, weekends and statutory holidays.

9. Submission of Claims:  
a) by claim form:  
• tick the premium box 7 in the location of service area and put a B, C, D, E, K, M, P or T immediately before the box, e.g. C 7;  
• also check the location of service box 2 to 5;  
• if another out-of-office premium-eligible service is done outside of the 5:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. time period or on a different day or if one service is done before midnight and a second service is done after midnight or if done in a period yielding a different rate, submit it on a separate form or if submitting by direct input, please use a different claim number;  

Example: If a 500H was provided at 9:00 a.m. and a 502H at 6:00 p.m., only the 502H would be eligible for an out-of-office premium. It should be submitted separately with a location of service of 2, a B before the premium box and the 7 ticked off. The appropriate location of service, B in this example, would be submitted if on direct input. The 500H should be submitted by separate claim form or on a different claim number by direct input.

Example: An ineligible service, e.g. 819A and eligible service, e.g. 5B, could be submitted on the same claim form or same direct input claim number which requests an out-of-office premium for the 5B. The Saskatchewan Health computer system would not generate an out-of-hours premium for the 819A.  

Example: An eligible service starting before 5:00 p.m. but running into 5:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. does not receive an out-of-hours premium. An eligible service must begin within the 5:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. time period or anytime on the weekend to qualify for the out-of-hours premium.  

Example: An eligible service starting in the 5:00 p.m. to midnight period and running beyond midnight qualifies for the out-of-hours premium and must be submitted with one of the before midnight codes B, C, D or E.

b) by electronic submission  

For out-of-hours premiums in the periods 1) 5:00 p.m. through midnight or 2) 7:00 a.m. to midnight on weekends and statutory holidays -- indicate B (in-hospital), C (out-patient), D (home) or E(other) in the location of service field when billing for eligible services provided during the out-of-hours premium period.     

For out-of-hours premiums in the period midnight to 7:00 a.m. -- indicate K (in-hospital), M (out-patient), P (home) or T(other) in the location of service field when billing for eligible services provided during the out-of-office premium period.

10. Payment of Claims: 
a) The Saskatchewan Health computer system automatically calculates the premium;  
b) The amount paid in the total premium amount field of the adjusted service is:  
--  50% (5:00 p.m. through midnight and 7:00 a.m. through midnight for weekends and stat holidays) or  
-- 100% (midnight through 7:00 a.m.) of the out-of-hours premium performed service (plus the age visit supplement or the Pediatric supplement if applicable (i.e. premiums/supplements are stacked); 
c) If multiple eligible services are done in the specified time period, they are first assessed by standard assessment rules e.g. 75% before the premium is applied to the total;  
d) The pay list will show the basic service code submitted and on the same record a payment amount in the total premium field equal to the value of the applicable premiums; 
e) The premium amount will be generated and will appear on the original line (record) in the Total Premium amount field. If an adjustment is generated by MSB, it will appear as code 897 or 899 A, J, or H for time of day premium.

11. Please do not submit any premium service codes or amounts; all calculations are done at the Ministry of Health.

12. Per "Documentation Requirements for the Purposes of Billing", the time and location of service must be documented in the medical record.

«L2:After-Hours-Clinic Premium For General Practitioners»

1. The after-hours-clinic premium provides the physician with increased compensation when they perform most services in an office location outside the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. weekdays.

2. This premium applies to scheduled or unscheduled after-hours-clinic work.

3. This premium is restricted to general practice physicians only.

4. The service must be provided in an office location to be eligible. Services not eligible for an after-hours-clinic premium include:  
a) hospital visits (700A, 701A, 25 to 28B, 35B, 52B, 53B);  
b) surcharges/premiums, e.g. 815 to 839A, 615A, 721A, 915A, 700A, 701A;  
c) emergency room coverage services i.e. 708A to 718A;  
d) special care homes; i.e. 627A-629A;  
e) lab services;  
f) services always done in the hospital, e.g. 184A, 600A, 725A, 726A, 727A, 732A, 734A, 121D, 123D, 124D, 128D, 129D, 132D, 278D, 279D, 281D-291D, 43E, 400H-424H, 540H, 545H, 580H, 585H, 80J, 81J, 278K, 279K, 679K, 580L, 180M, 383M, 580N, 333P, 580P, 581P, 400R, 500R, 580R;   
g) SGI services (70A, 71A, 74A); and 
h) other services, e.g. 763A, 764A, 765A, 766A, 767A, 768A, 57B, 60B, 61B, 62B, 130D, 131D.

5. When an after-hours-clinic premium applies to these services at an office location they must be billed with a location of service of F (after-hours-clinic).  

6. Effective June 1, 2011 the rate is 10% for weekdays 7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m., weekends and statutory holidays. For this premium "Weekend" refers to the period from 7:00 p.m. on Friday to midnight on Sunday. "Statutory Holiday" refers to the entire 24-hour period of the specific day.

7. Submission of Claims 
a) by claim form:  
• tick the premium box 7 in the location of service area and put an F immediately before the box, e.g. F 7;  
• also check the location of service box as 1. 
b) by electronic submission - For after-hours-clinic premiums in the period 7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. weekdays, weekends and statutory holidays -- indicate F (Office-after-hours) in the location of service field when billing for eligible services provided during the after-hours-clinic premium period.  

8. Payment of Claims   
a) The Ministry of Health computer system automatically calculates the premium;  
b) The amount paid in the total premium amount field of the adjusted service is: 10% of the after-hours-clinic premium performed service (plus the age visit supplement or the Pediatric supplement if applicable (i.e. premiums/supplements are stacked)).  
c) If multiple eligible services are done in the specified time period, they are first assessed by standard assessment rules e.g. 75% before the premium is applied to the total;   
d) The pay list will show the basic service code submitted and on the same record a payment amount in the total premium field equal to the value of the applicable premiums. 
e) The premium amount will be generated and will appear on the original line (record) in the Total Premium amount field.  If an adjustment is generated by Medical Services Branch, it will appear as code 891A for after-hours-clinic premium.

9. Please do not submit any premium service codes or amounts; all calculations are done by the Ministry of Health.  Per Documentation Requirements for the Purposes of Billing, the time and location of service must be documented in the medical record.

«L2:Emergency Room Coverage»

A. Preamble  

1. Payment for Emergency Room Coverage is intended to improve and stabilize the provision of emergency room coverage in rural Saskatchewan.  

2. Emergency Room Coverage is paid according to defined categories of communities with varying emergency room characteristics.  

Category "A" - facilities serving a large catchment area with high volume emergency department.  

Category "B" - smaller acute care facilities or health centres designated by the Saskatchewan Health Authority (SHA) as requiring 24-hour coverage.

3. Physicians can only be paid emergency room coverage for coverage of one facility or site at a time.  

4. Claims for 708A-710A and 714A-718A are to be billed electronically with:  

HSN The "dummy" HSN should correspond to the community as shown on Designated Category "A" Centres, Designated Category B Centres or Designated Provincial and Regionals Hospitals, as per the Coverage Areas listings.
DOB January 1, 1970
SEX Male
NAME Community name is entered in lieu of the patient's name (ie: Arcola, ER Coverage).
DIAGNOSIS Z56
LOCATION 3 (outpatient)
CLINIC Usual clinic billing number (itinerant physicians see clinic 996 note below);
HOURS Actual hours of coverage as a comment if you are billing for less than the maximum period on any day.
POSTAL CODE Use the postal code as listed under the category designations

5. MSB will pay to the maximum number of hours allowed in one day.

6. When the maximum has been exceeded, the claims will be returned for review between the physician(s) and possibly the Saskatchewan Health Authority.  

7. It is important that the designated on-call physician only submit the actual hours on-call.

8. Itinerant physicians are to use clinic 996 (and advise MSB) rather than their home clinic when submitting service claims for patients seen while providing weekend coverage in a community where they are not part of the normal coverage group.  

9. Itinerant locum physicians should use their regular clinic number.

B. Category A

1. Emergency Room Coverage - Category "A" services are categorized by time of day.  

2. Physicians who participate in the emergency rota are eligible for payment subject to SHA emergency coverage plans. It is expected the emergency on-call physician will:  
a) remain on-call at all times and be available to respond in person to all emergency or emergent cases within 15-30 minutes, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.  
b) provide telephone/triage consultation to nursing units, ambulance attendants, health centres and other hospitals as required

3. Payment is to the designated roster physician on an hourly basis as outlined below. Only one physician may bill for emergency room coverage for any complete hour per designated facility.

4. Each day or session must be billed individually.

5. A new day starts every midnight.

6. Premiums are not paid for these emergency room services (708A to 710A).

«CODE:708A» Weekdays Monday to Thursday 5 p.m. to 12:00 a.m. -- per hour   max 7 units per day    $16.80

«CODE:709A» Weekdays Tuesday to Friday  12:00 am to 8 am   -- per hour  max 8 units per day    $16.80

«CODE:710A» Weekends and Statutory Holidays or designated days  -- per hour max 24 units per day    $41.80

5p.m. to 12:00 a.m. -- Fridays; or,

-- day prior to statutory holiday; or

-- all day Saturday, Sunday, stat holidays

12:00 a.m.to 8 a.m. -- Monday; or,

-- day following statutory holiday.

Designated Category 'A' Facilities      
City / Town Postal Code (s) Dummy HSN  City / Town Postal Code (s) Dummy HSN
Arcola/Carlyle S0C 0G0/S0C 0R0 000091448  Melville S0A 2P0 000091170
Assiniboia S0H 0B0 000091014  Nipawin S0E 1E0 000091200
Biggar S0K 0M0 000091022  Outlook S0L 2N0 000091367
Esterhazy S0A 0X0 000091030  Oxbow S0C 2B0 000091456
Fort Qu'Appelle S0G 1S0 000091057  Radville S0C 2G0 000091464
Gravelbourg S0H 1X0 000091421  Redvers S0C 2H0 000091499
Hudson Bay S0E 0Y0  000091065  Rosetown S0L 2V0 or S0L 3P0 000091235
Kamsack S0A 1S0  000091081  Rosthern S0K 3R0 000091243
Kelvington S0A 1W0  000091413  Shellbrook S0J 2E0 000091251
Kindersley S0L 1S0/S0L 1S1/S0L 1S2 000091103  Tisdale S0E 1T0 000091286
Kipling S0G 2S0 000091383  Turtleford S0M 2Y0 000091405
La Loche S0M 1G0  000091111  Unity, Wilkie S0K 4W0 or S0K 4L0 000091332
La Ronge  S0J 1L0 000091138  Wadena S0A 4J0 000091430
Lloydminster S9V or T9V (Alta.) 000091146  Watrous S0K 4T0 000091472
Maple Creek S0N 1N0 000091359  Wynyard S0A 4T0 000091375
Meadow Lake S0M 1V0 or S9X 000091154   

C. Category B

1. Payment is made to physicians who provide emergency room coverage to eligible facilities in accordance with an approved SHA plan. This plan may include concurrent coverage of more than one community or more than one facility.

2. It is expected that the SHA, in consultation with the physicians, will develop plans for shared call rotas that will ensure:  
a) the ideal rota will provide for "one in three" (1:3) coverage for designated sites.  
b) one physician will remain on-call at all times and be available to respond in person to all emergency or emergent cases within 30-45 minutes, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. It may include coverage of more than one community or more than one facility as agreed to above. 
c) provide telephone/triage consultation to nursing units, ambulance attendants, health centres and other hospitals as required.

3. Physicians can only be paid ER coverage for coverage of one facility or site at a time.

4. Payment is to the designated roster physician on an hourly basis as outlined below.

5. Only one physician may bill for emergency room coverage for any complete hour per designated Facility.

6. Each day or session must be billed individually.

7. A new day starts every midnight.

8. Premiums are not paid for these emergency room services (714A to 716A).

«CODE:714A» Weekdays Monday to Thursday  5 p.m. to 12 a.m.  -- per hour  maximum 7 units per day    $8.50

«CODE:715A» Weekdays Tuesday to Friday  12 a.m. to 8 a.m.   -- per hour   maximum 8 units per day    $8.50

«CODE:716A» Weekends and Statutory Holidays or designated days   -- per hour maximum 24 per day    $33.95

5 p.m. to 12 a.m. -- Fridays; or,

-- day prior to statutory holiday; or,  
-- all day Saturday, Sunday, stat holidays

12 a.m. to 8 a.m. -- Monday; or,

-- day following statutory holiday.

Designated Category 'B' Facilities      

City / Town Postal Code (s) Dummy HSN  City / Town Postal Code (s) Dummy HSN
Black Lake S0J 0H0 000092614  Indian Head S0G 2K0 000092274
Broadview S0G 0K0 000092045  Kerrobert S0L 1R0 000092290
Davidson S0G 1A0 000092142  Lanigan S0K 2M0 000092347
Herbert S0H 2A0 000092231  Leader S0N 1H0 000092355
Ile a la Crosse S0M 1C0 000092258  Porcupine Plain S0E 1H0 000092509
     Wolseley S0G 5H0 000092703

D. Family Physician On-Call Coverage - Provincial and Regional Hospitals

1. Payment is made to physicians who provide on-call coverage services to Provincial and Regional hospitals to assist health regions in managing patient care in these facilities. Saskatchewan Health Authority (SHA) plans for these medical services must be developed in conjunction with and be endorsed by the physician coverage group and must be approved by the Emergency Room Coverage Committee.

2. Each rotation will be expected to provide coverage on a continuous basis, 24 hours per day, 7 days per week. A formal call schedule must be developed and submitted in advance to the facility being covered.

3. Physicians are eligible to receive payment for coverage of only one facility at any given time. Physicians may not bill 717A or 718A for the same hour that they bill 708A, 709A, 710A, 714A, 715A, 716A, or for the same period in which they receive payments under the Specialist Emergency Coverage Program.

4. If a physician participates in more than one call coverage program, the combined total amount of call reimbursed cannot exceed "1 in 2" for the year.

5. Each day or session must be billed individually, with each new day starting at midnight. Premiums are not payable with these call coverage services.

«CODE:717A» Coverage for Provincial Hospitals (Regina/Saskatoon) -- per hour  max 24 hours per day    $11.10

«CODE:718A» Coverage for Regional Hospitals,  -- per hour max 24 hours per day    $11.10

Designated Family Physician Coverage Facilities - Effective October 1, 2013

Facility Postal Code(s) Dummy HSN
Regina General Hospital S4L, S4N, S4P, S4R, S4S, S4T, S4V, S4X, S4Y 000093017
Regina Pasqua Hospital S4L, S4N, S4P, S4R, S4S, S4T, S4V, S4X, S4Y 000093114
Saskatoon City Hospital S7H, S7J, S7K, S7L, S7M, S7N, S7P, S7S, S7T, S7V, S7W 000093211
Saskatoon Royal University Hospital S7H, S7J, S7K, S7L, S7M, S7N, S7P, S7S, S7T, S7V, S7W 000093416
Saskatoon St. Paul's Hospital S7H, S7J, S7K, S7L, S7M, S7N, S7P, S7S, S7T, S7V, S7W 000093319
Battlefords Union Hospital S9A, S0M 000094102
Cypress Regional Hospital S9H 000094315
Lloydminster Hospital S9V or T9V 000094501
Moose Jaw Union Hospital S6H or S6J 000094013
Prince Albert Victoria Hospital S6V or S6X 000094218
Yorkton Regional Hospital S3N 000094412

«L2:Telemedicine Supplement with Direct Interactive Video Link with the Patient»

Payment is limited to Medical Services Branch (MSB) approved facilities and practitioners who must both be in Saskatchewan. MSB is responsible for approving facilities and practitioners; exceptions will only be considered with prior approval by MSB.  

«CODE:732A» Initial daily supplement - for any patient attended to using an approved telemedicine video link (maximum of one per day for all patients)    $31.40    $31.40

«CODE:734A» Subsequent daily supplement - for additional patients attended to using an approved telemedicine video link    $12.50    $12.50

a) Payable in addition to appropriate visit codes only. Premiums and special call surcharges do not apply to these telemedicine codes.  
b) Payment limited to approved facilities and practitioners who must both be in Saskatchewan (exceptions will only be considered with prior approval by MSB. 
c) Payment for non-Saskatchewan beneficiaries requires prior approval by MSB.  
d) On site assistant may be needed to assist with the on-site aspects of the assessment (examination).

«CODE:729A» Telemedicine Technical Standby -- for each 15 minutes, or major portion thereof, max 30 minutes    $34.55    $34.55

a) Only applies if telemedicine service is delayed or interrupted for technical reasons.  
b) No other service can be provided or billed in this interval.  
c) Paid by report - please detail the nature of the problem, its resolution and the start time and end times. 
d) The time is calculated from the beginning to the end of the technical delay.

«CODE:728A» General Practitioner Assistant -- for each 15 minutes, or major portion thereof, more than 2 units require an explanation    $31.40

a) Only applies if a general practitioner is required at the referring end, to assist with essential physical assessment without which the specialist service would be ineffective.  
b) The time is calculated from the beginning to the end of the personal attendance and documented in the medical record. 
c) No other service can be provided or billed in this interval.

«L3:Video Case Conference»

a) Must be a formal scheduled session with an approved out-of-province referral centre.  
b) A single video case conference fee billed in the name of one patient covers all the patients reviewed during that videoconference.  
c) The physician should keep appropriate documentation of time and place.  
d) @ Entitlement to bill video case conference codes is limited to physicians who have applied to and been granted approval by the Saskatchewan Medical Association Tariff Committee. 
e) For the purposes of billing, 726A and 727A are billable on the date that the approval is granted to the physician.  See "Services Billable by Entitlement".

«CODE:~726A» Video case conference -- first 15 minutes    $57.65    $57.65
«CODE:~727A» Video case conference -- subsequent 15 minutes, or major portion    $39.60    $39.60

«L2:Remote Telephone call from Primary Health Nurse/Triage Nurse in Another Community»

«CODE:761A» Not payable in addition to any other payment for the same date of service (1 call per patient per day maximum)    $27.50    $27.50

a) Additional calls or visits will only be paid by report.  
b) Payment is restricted to telephone conversations initiated by remote primary health nurse/triage nurse seeking advice about the management of a patient.  
c) All calls must be recorded on the patient's chart, including the name of the primary health nurse/triage nurse involved.

«L2:Monitoring Anticoagulant Therapy»

«CODE:763A» Monitoring anticoagulant therapy by telephone, per month –  
a) monitoring the condition of a patient with respect to anticoagulant therapy; 
b) ordering blood tests; 
c) interpreting the results; 
d) inquiry into possible complications; and, 
e) adjusting the dosage of the anticoagulant therapy.  

Max per patient per month - only 1 physician can be paid for each month.    $25.20    $25.20

«L2:Monitoring Diabetic Patients on Insulin»

Monthly fees for monitoring and managing patients with insulin-dependent diabetes.  

Includes: 
a) monitoring patient's condition;  
b) blood sugars and insulin levels;  
c) ordering and interpreting any necessary tests; and, 
d) adjusting insulin dosage as necessary.

1. The fees are only payable for months in which information (by phone, fax, e-mail or other electronic means) has been sent to the physician that requires a change in the patient's drug or insulin therapy.  
2. The physician must review the information personally (not billable if review undertaken by nurse or diabetes educator). 
3. Only one (1) physician may bill these codes for any given patient in any one month.  
4. A record of the information and the physician's advice must be included in the patient's chart.

«CODE:764A» Patients with type 2 diabetes on insulin -- per month    $27.50    $27.50
«CODE:765A» Patients with type 1 diabetes on insulin -- per month    $51.05    $51.05
«CODE:766A» Patients with type 1 diabetes on insulin pump  -- first 12 months    $78.00    $78.00    $78.00
«CODE:767A» Patients with type 1 diabetes on insulin pump  -- after 12 months    $51.00    $51.00    $51.00
«CODE:768A» Pregnant patients with diabetes (type 1 or 2) on insulin -- includes gestational diabetes  -- per month    $76.45    $76.45

«L1:SECTION A – General Services»

«L2:Remote Consultation Between Physicians»

«CODE:769A» Major Telephone Assessment -- includes:  
a) Pertinent family history; 
b) Patient history; 
c) History of presenting complaint; 
d) Discussion with referring physician of functional enquiry and examination of all 
parts and systems; 
e) Review of laboratory and/or other data; 
f) 
Diagnosis/assessment; and, 
g) Record 
and 
written 
submission 
of 
the 
consultant's 
opinion 
and 
recommendations to the referring doctor, but without the consulting physician 
seeing the patient. 
$55.55 
$55.55@ 

If the patient is subsequently seen within 42 days for care or assessment, the 
physician would be unable to claim for a consultation, but could claim for a complete 
or initial assessment, depending upon the service provided. 

«CODE:762A» Minor Telephone Assessment -- includes:  
a) History review; 
b) History of presenting complaint; and, 
c) Discussion of patient condition/management and recommendation to 
referring physician, but without the consulting physician seeing the patient.  
$27.50 
$27.50@ 

1. A written opinion is not necessary for this fee. However, the referring 
physician's name, patient information, the diagnosis and the recommendation 
must be recorded.  

2. The specialist may respond by telephone, fax or e-mail. 

@  General practitioners approved to provide coverage under the Specialist 
Emergency Coverage Program may be entitled to bill 762A and 769A. 

«CODE:770A» Monitoring Home Parenteral Antimicrobial Intravenous Therapy – by telephone 
$27.35 

1. Payable for management of antimicrobial agents prescribed for administration 
at home through parenteral home intravenous programs. 

2. Only payable to specialists recognized by the College of Physicians and Surgeons 
of Saskatchewan as being Infectious Disease specialists (both adult and 
pediatric). 

3. Payable once per calendar week per patient; ie: only one physician is able to bill 
on the same patient per week. 

4. This service is not eligible for premiums or surcharges. 

5. This payment stops when the active treatment protocol ends. 

6. Includes: 
a) monitoring the condition of a patient regarding antimicrobial therapy;  
b) ordering blood tests;  
c) interpreting the results;  
d) inquiry into possible complications; and,  
e) adjusting the dosage of the antimicrobial therapy. 

7. Visit services for each patient contact would be paid per usual. 

8. A record of the information and the physician's advice must be included in the patient's chart. 

«L2:Telephone Calls/Facsimile/Email initiated by Allied Health Care Personnel to Discuss Patient Care and Management»

1. 
Allied health care personnel includes, but is not limited to: 

- Home Care Coordinators 
- Registered and licensed practical nurses 
- VON 
- Public health nurses 
- Psychiatric Nurses 
- Mental health workers 
- Physiotherapists 
- Occupational Therapists 
- 
Respiratory Therapists 
- 
Ambulance Paramedics 
- 
Social Workers 
- 
Psychologists 
- 
School Teachers/counsellors 
- 
Pharmacists 
- 
Private care home shift supervisor 

2. 
Physicians, optometrists, dentists and chiropractors are not considered allied health care personnel, per 
"Definitions". 

3. 
Payment is restricted to telephone calls, facsimile or email initiated by allied health care personnel. 

4. 
Telephone calls initiated by the patient's family members may not be billed under this code 

5. 
All interactions must be recorded on the patient's chart, including the name and professional capacity of 
the allied health care personnel involved and the advice given.  

6. 
No claim may be made for telephone calls in which only a physician proxy, e.g. nurse or clerk, speaks with 
the allied health care personnel. 

7. 
This code is for circumstances where it's necessary for the pharmacist to discuss the care of the patient and 
is not for prescription renewal, clarifying illegible prescriptions or switching to a generic form of a drug. 

8. 
No claim may be made for telephone calls regarding patients in hospital receiving acute care. 

9. 
This service is not intended to cover calls insured as part of the Emergency Room Coverage codes (708A to 
716A) and Family Physician On-Call Coverage codes (717A and 718A). 

10. 
This fee code is intended to compensate the physician for unexpected interruptions to the physician's 
normal practice routine. 

11. 
Where the allied health personnel requests information or advice by facsimile, email or other electronic 
means, the physician may respond by telephone, facsimile, email or other electronic means and submit a 
claim for this request. 

12. 
Only one of codes 790A, 791A, 796A, 797A, 794A and 795A is payable per day. 

13. 
If other services are provided on the same day codes 790A/791A/796A/797A are not payable. 

14. 
Phone calls related to the care of patients designated as palliative are billed under code 793A. 

15. 
This code is not intended to cover calls regarding patients being billed under code 770A (antimicrobial 
management stipend) 

«L3:On Behalf of Special Care Home Patients»

«CODE:790A» Facsimile/email - 
Not payable in addition to any other payment for the same date of 
service 
$16.05 
$16.05 

«CODE:796A» Telephone - 
Not payable in addition to any other payment for the same date of 
service 
$22.00 
$22.00 

«L3:On Behalf of All Other Patients»

«CODE:791A» Facsimile/email - 
Not payable in addition to any other payment for the same date of 
service 
$16.05 
$16.05 

«CODE:797A» Telephone - 
Not payable in addition to any other payment for the same date of 
service 
$22.00 
$22.00 

«L2:Telephone Calls/Facsimile/Email on behalf of a Palliative Patient»

1. 
This code is billable for patients designated as palliative by the Saskatchewan Health 
Authority or by the Saskatchewan Drug Plan.  

2. 
Billing is restricted to telephone calls, facsimile or email initiated by allied health 
care personnel, or telephone calls from the patient's designated family 
representative. 

3. 
Allied health care personnel includes, but is not limited to: 

− Home Care Coordinators;  
− Registered and licensed practical 
nurses;  
− VON;  
− Public health nurses;  
− Psychiatric Nurses;  
− Mental health workers;  
− Physiotherapists;  
− Occupational Therapists;  
− Respiratory Therapists;  
− Ambulance Paramedics;  
− Social Workers;  
− Psychologists;  
− School Teachers/counsellors;  
− Pharmacists;  
− Private care home shift supervisor. 

4. 
Physicians, optometrists, dentists and chiropractors are not considered allied health 
care personnel, per "Definitions". 

5. 
No claim may be made for telephone calls in which only a physician proxy, e.g. nurse or 
clerk, speaks with the allied health care personnel or family member.  

6. 
No claim may be made for telephone calls regarding patients in hospital receiving 
acute care. 

7. 
Where the allied health personnel requests information or advice by facsimile, email or 
other electronic means, the physician may respond by telephone, facsimile, email, or 
other electronic means.  

8. 
Contacts from the patient's family representative are restricted to telephone calls. 

9. 
All interactions must be recorded on the patient's chart, including the name and 
professional capacity of the allied health care personnel involved and the advice given 

10. This code is for circumstances where it's necessary for the pharmacist to discuss the 
care of the patient and is not for prescription renewal, clarifying illegible prescriptions 
or switching to a generic form of a drug. 

11. A maximum of three contacts are payable per day.  

12. Codes 790A, 791A, 796A, 797A, 794A, and 795A are not billable for this patient on the 
day this code is billed. 

13. This code is not intended to cover calls regarding patients being billed under code 
770A (antimicrobial management stipend). 

«CODE:793A» Telephone calls/facsimile/email on behalf of palliative per patient -- bill units – max 3. 
$22.00 
$22.00 

«L2:Prescription Renewal by Telephone Call, Facsimile, Email Or Other Electronic Means»

1. Payment is restricted to prescription renewals initiated by a pharmacist by 
telephone, facsimile, email or other electronic means.  

2. This service is not to be used as a routine practice or to authorize repeat 
prescriptions for which long term repeats would more properly have been 
authorized at the time of writing of the initial prescription. 

3. All requests must be recorded on the patient's chart, including the name of the 
pharmacist involved and the purpose of the request.  

4. This code is not intended to cover calls made to clarify a prescription or decipher an 
illegible prescription, switching to a generic form of a drug or requesting EDS, these 
services are part of the visit service that involved the writing of the initial 
prescription. 

5. No claim may be made for telephone calls in which only a physician proxy, e.g. 
nurse or clerk, speaks with the pharmacist.  

6. No claim may be made when a physician directs a patient to request the 
pharmacist to call, fax or e-mail a renewal request. 

7. No claim may be made for telephone calls regarding patients in hospital receiving 
acute care.  

8. This service code is not intended to cover calls insured as part of the Emergency 
Room Coverage codes 708A to 716A and Family Physician On-Call Coverage codes 
717A and 718A. 

9. Where the pharmacist requests a prescription renewal by facsimile, email or other 
electronic means, the physician may respond by telephone, facsimile, email or 
other  

10. This service code includes oxygen renewals through the SAIL program. 

11. Only one of the service codes 790A, 791A, 796A, 797A, 794A and 795A are payable 
per day. If other services are provided on the same day, codes 794A and 795A are 
not payable. 

12. This code is not intended to cover calls regarding patients being billed under code 
770A (antimicrobial management stipend). 

«CODE:794A» Prescription renewal phone call - 
Not payable in addition to any other payment for 
the same date of service  
$6.05 
$6.05 

«CODE:795A» Prescription renewal fax/email  -  
Not payable in addition to any other payment for 
the same date of service 
$5.50 
$5.50 

«L2:Virtual Care Services»

Please see Virtual Care preamble in the introductory section of the Payment Schedule 
for more information. 

«CODE:875A» Limited virtual care visit (patient to physician) provided via secure videoconference. 
Maximum one per patient, per day. Cannot be billed with any additional service 
codes, virtual or in-person, by the same physician on the same day. Includes: 
$26.50 
$26.50 

a) history review;  

b) hstory of presenting complaint 

c) functional enquiry;  

d) assessment;  

e) diagnosis;  

f) necessary treatment;  

g) advice to the patient; and  

h) record of service provided. 

This service must be initiated by the patient.  

Limited virtual care visit service code is payable to physicians (General Practitioner or 
Specialist) providing episodic care initiated by a patient via a virtual care clinic that 
does not provide in-person physician services.  

This service code is not payable for services performed by a medical learner under the 
supervision of a physician. 

Physicians providing services via a virtual care only clinic must use this service code 
and must deliver the service via secure video conference. For further clarity, 875A is 
not payable for virtual care services provided via telephone. 

«L2:Continuous Personal Attendance»

1. 
This service code is all inclusive, for medically required personal attendance given 
continuously by a physician, where no other item in the Payment Schedule 
applies.  

2. 
This code requires that the physician is continuously present at the patient's side. 

3. 
For example, if a physician spends 45 minutes providing care continuously to a 
person, 15 minutes is for closed chest drainage (95L) and the remaining 30 
minutes is for services where no other items in the payment schedule apply, then 
the physician should bill 95L plus two units of 918A. 

4. 
Certain procedures may be billed in conjunction with a period of 918A in the same 
manner as they may be billed in conjunction with a period of 335H-339H (see 
Section H).  

5. 
It may be billed with the appropriate emergency or special call surcharge. 

6. 
For intensive care in ICU or CCU -- see Section H. 

7. 
Code 918A is not paid for maternity cases. 

8. 
For a claim to be processed, the physician must provide details of:  
a) the clinical condition necessitating continuous attendance;  
b) the treatment or care provided;  
c) time when continuous attendance on patient started and was completed. 

«CODE:918A» Continuous personal attendance -- per 15 minutes or major portion thereof  
$49.85 
$44.90 

«L2:Physician Accompanying a Patient on Transfer By Ambulance from one Locale to Another»

1. 
These service codes are all inclusive, for medically required attendance during 
patient transfer by ambulance.  

2. 
Certain procedures can be billed during a period of 926A-928A in the same 
manner as they can be billed during a period of 335H - 339H (see Section H).  

3. 
For example if closed chest drainage takes 15 minutes, code 95L can be billed but 
that 15 minutes should not also be billed as a 926A or 927A).  

4. 
It may be billed with the appropriate emergency or special call surcharge. 

5. 
For a claim to be processed, the physician must provide details of:  
a) the clinical condition necessitating continuous attendance;  
b) the treatment or care provided;  
c) time when continuous attendance on patient started and was completed. 

«CODE:926A» Outbound journey with patient only  
--  per 15 minutes or major 
portion thereof 
- bill units  
$54.00 
$48.60 
«CODE:927A» Homeward or return journey with or 
without patient  
--  per 15 minutes or major 
portion thereof 
- bill units  
$35.00 
$31.50 
«CODE:928A» Standby at destination while patient is 
transferred to receiving physician  
(max 4 units) 
--  per 15 minutes or major 
portion thereof  
- bill units 
$40.00 
$40.00 

«L2:Indirect Patient Care - Emergency Situations - Emergency Department»

1. 
This service code is limited to emergency situations in emergency departments where 
physician time is used exclusively for indirect patient care. This code may only be billed by 
general practitioners.   

2. 
Indirect patient care includes arranging and coordinating:  
a) diagnostic imaging required for immediate treatment;  
b) hospital admission;  
c) laboratory investigations necessary for immediate treatment;  
d) necessary ancillary medical staff; 
e) surgical team;  
f) telephone calls to arrange immediate specialist intervention; and 
a) transfer of the patient to another acute care facility. 

3. 
Indirect patient care does not include:  
a) completion of hospital admission documents;  
b) discussing the patient's condition with the family;  
c) patient conversations;  
d) recording of exam findings; 
e) research or discussion about the case;  
f) telephone calls to other physicians for advice; and 
g) telephone calls to arrange non-urgent specialist care. 

4. This code is billable on the same day as continuous personal attendance (918A) and 
emergency resuscitation codes (220A-226A), provided that the time periods do not overlap. 

5. It is billable following minor assessments, major assessments and consultations. 

6. It may be billed with the appropriate emergency or special call surcharge. 

7. Physicians cannot bill for other work during the same time as this service is being billed. 

8. For a claim to be processed, the physician must provide details of: 
a) the patient's clinical condition, and; 
b) the type of care being arranged, and; 
c) the time when indirect patient care was started and was completed. 

«CODE:919A» Indirect patient care -- per 15 minutes or major portion thereof -- bill units 
$44.00 

«L2:Hyperbaric Oxygen Therapy»

The administration and supervision (direct continuous and indirect non-continuous) of 
hyperbaric oxygen therapy including assessment, examination, ongoing monitoring of 
the patient's condition, and intervention, as appropriate. 
1. Billable only when provided in an MSB-approved facility.  
2. Billable only for the treatment of those clinical conditions recognized and 
approved by Health Canada.  
3. HBOT is only eligible for payment for idiopathic sudden sensorineural hearing 
loss when the following conditions are met: 
a) The patient is treated concurrently with corticosteroid unless 
corticosteroids are contraindicated; and 
b) The treatment is initiated within 14 days of a diagnosis of ISSHL that is 
made or confirmed by an Otolaryngologist. 
4. Visit services billed in conjunction at the same patient contact must be medically 
required and fulfill all requirements as indicated in the Payment Schedule. Visit 
services are not to be billed in addition to 935A when only pre- and/or post-
assessment and exam services are provided  - these services are  included in 
935A fee 

«CODE:935A» Hyperbaric Oxygen Therapy – Continuous Attendance --first 15 minutes 
$79.20 
$79.20 

First 15 minutes of direct continuous attendance and monitoring of a patient in the 
hyperbaric unit.  
1.   This fee is inclusive of all pre- and post-assessment and exam services 
(review of history, medications, treatment plan, contraindications, review 
of side effects and signed consent). 
2.   No other service can be provided or billed in this interval 

«CODE:936A» Hyperbaric Oxygen Therapy – Continuous Attendance --subsequent 15 minutes or 
major portion thereof   -- bill units, maximum 11 units per session. 
$39.60 
$39.60 

Per 15 minutes (or major portion thereof) of direct continuous attendance and 
monitoring of a patient in the hyperbaric unit. 
1. No other service can be provided or billed in this interval. 

«CODE:937A» Hyperbaric Oxygen Therapy – Non-Continuous Indirect Supervision 
$39.60 
$39.60 

 Non-continuous indirect supervision of a patient in the hyperbaric unit. Physician 
must be on site and able to intervene promptly, as necessary.  
1. Billable once per patient, per session. 
2. Not payable if physician is receiving compensation by another program or 
funding source for providing on-site coverage during the same time and date  
at the same facility. 

BLANK PAGE INTENTIONAL

«L1:S E C T I O N  B – General Practice»

«L2:General Practice Visits»

Visit age supplement for patients 55 years of age and older:

1. These supplements provide the physician with increased compensation when providing an 
eligible visit service for a patient over 54 years of age.

2. Eligible visit services include codes 3B, 5B, 55B, 9B, 11B, 15B, 73B, and 85B.  Any other services 
are not eligible for this supplement

3. You are not required to submit any codes or indicators to obtain this supplement. MSB will 
generate the payment of this supplement automatically and report the payment on your pay 
list or paid files using the total premium amount field or column at the following rates:

a) for patients 55 to 64 years of age
----- 20%

b) for patients 65 to 74 years of age
----- 30%

c) for patients 75 to 84 years of age  
----- 40%

d) for patients 85 years of age and older  
-----45%

NOTE:  General Practice Age Supplements are based on the value of the visit excluding other 
premiums and surcharges

«CODE:3B*» Complete assessment--includes:  $86.00

a) pertinent family history;
b) patient history;
c) history of presenting complaint;
d) functional enquiry;
e) examination of all parts and systems;
f) assessment;
g) diagnosis;
h) necessary treatment;
i) advice to the patient; and,
j) record of service provided.

«CODE:4B*» Well baby care in office -- refers to the periodic office visits during the first year of life of a healthy 
infant and includes:
a) the necessary weights and measurements;
b) examination;
c) instruction to the parent regarding health care; and,
d) record of service provided. $44.70

«CODE:5B*» Partial assessment or subsequent visit -- includes:  $43.05

a) history review;
b) history of presenting complaint;
c) functional enquiry;
d) examination of affected part(s) or system(s);
e) assessment;
f) diagnosis;
g) necessary treatment;
h) advice to the patient; and, 
i) record of service provided.

* Payment for patients 0-5 years of age is automatically applied. See Section A (Pediatric Visit Age 
Supplement) for details.

Use 55B instead of 5B for a visit where a specialist referral is made and continue using 5B for visits 
where a specialist referral is not made

«CODE:55B*» Partial assessment or subsequent visit involving a specialist referral -- includes:  $43.05

a) history review;
b) history of presenting complaint;
c) functional enquiry;
d) examination of affected part(s) or system(s);
e) assessment;
f) diagnosis;
g) necessary treatment;
h) advice to the patient; and, 
i) record of service provided.

«CODE:8B» Prenatal visit after the first visit for maternity care or post-natal office visit -- This service is only 
eligible for payment when all relevant clinical details of the visit are documented in a Saskatchewan 
approved prenatal form. $46.35

«CODE:9B*» Consultation – includes:
a) all visits necessary;
b) history and examination;
c) review of laboratory and/or other data; and
d) written submission of the consultant's opinion; and 
e) recommendations to the referring doctor $90.20

«CODE:11B*» Repeat Consultation $46.55

A formal consultation for the same or related condition repeated within 90 days by the same 
physician.  Repeat consultation is only to be billed when it is generated by a new formal request by 
the referring physician. It should not be used for routine follow-up of the patient for which service 
code 5B "partial assessment" is appropriate.

«CODE:15B*» Pre-operative assessment --includes: $77.70

a) pertinent family and social history;
b) patient history;
c) functional enquiry;
d) examination of all relevant parts and systems, and;
e) completion of required forms and advice to the patient as necessary.

1. Payable only to physicians other than the attending surgeon.
2. Where this service is provided by the same physician within 30 days of a complete assessment it 
should be billed as a partial assessment.

*  Payment for patients 0-5 years of age is automatically applied. See Section A (Pediatric Visit
Age Supplement) for details.

«L2:Hospital Care – payable on day of admission»

Hospital care is billable by the physician responsible for inpatient care of patients admitted to 
hospital. Hospital care includes all of the routine services required to manage in hospital care. 
Additional services provided as a result of an acute episode may be payable with an explanation. 

Post-operative hospital care is included in the surgical fee and can only be paid if hospital care is 
provided by another physician for a condition unrelated to the surgery. 

Upon transfer of hospital care to another physician, billing of hospital care should be as if there was 
a continuation of care under the same physician. An assessment or consultation may not be billed 
when hospital care is transferred to another physician. 

Hospital care may be billed for short term acute care patients who are admitted to a health centre 
in the same manner as an acute care hospital. Physicians may not use hospital care to cover in-
hospital patients who are designated as long-term care. These patients are to be billed under codes 
627A-629A – Special Care Home Management.

«CODE:25B» -- 1-10 days
-- per day -- bill units (max 10) $62.50
«CODE:26B» -- 11-20 days
-- per day -- bill units (max 10) $62.50
«CODE:27B» -- 21-30 days
-- per day -- bill units (max 10) $62.50
«CODE:28B» -- 31 days and thereafter
-- per day -- bill units (max 99) $62.50

«L2:Palliative Hospital Care – Payable on day of admission»

Palliative hospital care is billable by the physician responsible for the in-hospital care of patients 
designated as palliative by the Saskatchewan Health Authority or the Saskatchewan Drug Plan.

1. Hospital care includes all the routine services required to manage in hospital care.
2. Additional services provided as a result of an acute episode may be payable with an 
explanation. 
3. An assessment or consultation may not be billed when palliative hospital care is transferred 
to another physician. 
4. This code is billed instead of regular hospital care codes (25B to 28B).

«CODE:35B» Palliative hospital care -- per day, bill units (maximum 99 per line; 1 unit = 1 day) $78.30

«L2:Counselling»

1. Counselling is where the physician engages with the patient on an individual basis, where the 
goal of the physician and patient is to become aware of the patient's problems or situation 
and of the modalities for prevention and/or treatment

2. Counselling can also include an educational dialogue with the patient regarding 
prevention/health promotion, early detection of health problems, environmental issues 
related to the patient's health and occupational health and safety.

3. It is recognized that techniques may include hypnosis.

4. Payment for this service implies that it is a discrete service provided by the physician personally. 

5. It is not a substitute for a visit involving a complete or partial examination or assessment. 

6. This code is not to be used simply because an assessment and/or treatment took 15 minutes 
or longer, such as in the case of multiple complaints.

Third party counselling:

1. NOTE:  Third party counselling for the provision of Medical Assistance in Dying (MAID) 
related services are billable under service codes 80A/81A.

2. It is payable on a third-party basis when a family member is counselled because of the 
patient's serious and complex problem. 

3. It is not payable for routine briefing or advice to relatives, which is considered part of the 
visit service fee. 

4. Third party counselling must be provided at a booked separate appointment.

5. Third party counselling claims are subject to a maximum of 30 minutes and should be 
submitted in the counselled individual's name. 

6. Diagnosis must be confirmed or the diagnostic code Z84 must be indicated.

7. May be billed by any physician.

Per "Documentation Requirements for the Purposes of Billing", all time-based codes must have the start and 
stop times documented in the medical record. 
«CODE:40B» Counselling -- first 15 minutes,  includes: $54.90

a) history review;
b) counselling,;
c) educational dialogue;
d) intervention;
e) record of service provided, and;
f) time spent counselling.

«CODE:41B» Counselling -- next 15 minutes or major portion thereof $46.45

«L2:Case Conference»

1. Must be a formal scheduled session. 

2. A single conference fee billed in the name of one patient covers all the patients reviewed at 
that conference. 

3. Use 43B if case conference is part of Home Care Program.

4. A maximum of two case conferences per patient per year is billable. 

5. The physician must keep appropriate documentation of start and stop times and place; per 
Documentation Requirements for the Purposes of Billing.

6. May be billed by any physician.

«CODE:42B» -- per conference (not patient) 
-- first 30 minutes or part thereof $105.60
«CODE:43B» -- per home care conference (not patient) 
-- first 30 minutes or part thereof $105.60
«CODE:44B» -- add to 42B or 43B 
-- for each additional 15 minutes or part thereof $52.80

«L2:Supportive Care»

1. Supportive Care is billable by the patient's family physician for inpatient visits to patients 
formally admitted to hospital under a specialist, or a General Practitioner (GP) Hospitalist from 
an approved site, where it is necessary and/or prudent for the family physician to visit the 
patient to:

a) promote continuity of care; 
b) reassure the patient and liaise with the family;
c) become aware of the specialist's current and future treatment recommendations;
d) facilitate the continuing management of the patient in the community following 
discharge.

2. This service must be documented in the patient's file (hospital chart).

3. This service is not payable in addition to a case conference billed for the same patient on the 
same day or in conjunction with any surcharge or premium. 

4. Cases where the patient has spent less than 24 hours as a hospital in-patient will only be paid if 
this service has not been paid in the preceding 30 days.

5. Services in excess of six per discrete hospital admission per patient are to be billed by report 
which means the claim must be accompanied by a detailed explanation of the circumstances. 
Payment will be assessed on the basis of the explanation.

6. An approved GP Hospitalist site is a hospital with at least one permanent GP hospitalist rota.

7. Supportive care is not billable by the family physician if they are the physician who admits the 
patient to hospital.

8. This service is only payable if the 4-digit number of the physician who admitted the patient is 
indicated in the referring doctor field.

«CODE:52B» Supportive care, initial visit -- to be billed once per admission - otherwise use 53B $48.95
«CODE:53B» Supportive care, subsequent visits -- to be billed during the patient's stay as a hospital in-patient up 
to a maximum of once per week ( i.e. 53B is not billable within 6 days of another 53B) $48.95

«L2:Hepatitis C - Monthly Stipend For Overseeing Treatment»

1. Monthly stipend for managing the treatment of patients with a confirmed diagnosis of 
Hepatitis C.

2. The fees are payable for months in which treatment is provided according to recognized 
protocols for Hepatitis C.

3. Only one physician may bill this code per month per patient.  

4. Patient contacts would continue to be paid as visit services. 

5. This fee is not eligible for premiums or surcharges.

6. This payment stops when the active treatment protocol ends.

7. @ May be billed by physicians granted entitlement by the Saskatchewan Medical Association
Tariff Committee only.  For the purposes of billing, 57B is billable on the date that the
approval is granted to the physician.  See "Services Billable by Entitlement".

«CODE:~57B» Hepatitis C - Monthly Stipend for Overseeing Treatment -- each month $51.00

«L2:Monthly stipend for Overseeing Methadone/Suboxone Management – Addiction patients only»

«CODE:60B» First 3 months
-- per patient (lifetime maximum) $50.00
«CODE:61B» Second 3 months 
-- per patient (lifetime maximum) $40.00
«CODE:62B» Thereafter
-- per patient $30.00

1. No restarts in the payment program; if the patient leaves the program and then at a later date 
re-enters the program, their payment would resume at the same level as when they opted 
out.

2. Only one physician will be paid the monthly stipend. 

3. Change of physician does not affect level of payment.

4. Visits for each patient contact would be paid as at present (5B's or 40B's) in addition to 
monthly stipend.

5. Not eligible for premiums or surcharges.

6. Entitlement to these monthly stipends is limited to physicians who:

a) have been approved by the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Saskatchewan to 
prescribe methadone and/or Suboxone for addiction; and

b) are actively supervising the patient's continuing use of methadone or 
buprenorphine/naloxone (Suboxone) within the provincial methadone program.

7. This payment stops when the patient stops taking methadone/Suboxone.

«CODE:63B» Psychiatric Examination $107.65

1. Examination and certification of need for psychiatric examination pursuant to The Mental 
Health Services Act with completion of Form A.

2. Code 63B does not apply to examination, certification or decertification for mental 
incompetence/competence under The Mentally Disordered Persons Act. Accounts for those 
services should be submitted to the office of the Public Trustee.

«CODE:150B» Medical Management of Termination of Early Pregnancy – includes 5 days of ongoing medical 
management of the patient by the same physician or another physician in the same clinic, including 
any or all of the following: 

a) Patient examination, assessment, visits, consultation, communication, and/or counselling; 
b) Administration of the requisite medication regimen (the included 5 days of ongoing 
medical management entails management services provided on day of initial consultation 
and 4 days following);
c) Ordering, reviewing and follow-up of laboratory tests; 
d) All communication with other physicians or allied health care personnel (verbal and 
written) related to the medical management of the patient; and,
e) Billable once per patient per discrete pregnancy by any physician. $170.00

«L2:Chronic Disease Management»

1. Chronic disease management (CDM) fees are designed to encourage the use of accepted 
clinical care pathways to optimize the patient management. 

2. CDM fees are billable only for patients with a confirmed diagnosis of diabetes mellitus, 
coronary artery disease, heart failure or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) who 
requires ongoing longitudinal care management of these diseases.

3. Frequency:

a) CDM fees are billable only once per patient, every 90 days. 
b) To initiate billing of these codes, the physician's first CDM fee claim for the patient must 
include the comment: "will be providing ongoing care to the patient". 
c) Subsequent (after 90 days) CDM fee claims must be consecutive and continuous for the 
same patient by the same physician or clinic and will not require a comment.

4. Flow Sheets:

a) A patient CDM flow sheet approved by the Saskatchewan Medical Association must be 
completed and care must be consistent with approved guidelines. 
b) The approved CDM flow sheets are available on the Saskatchewan Medical Association 
website. 

5. Time Spent with Patient:
a) The CDM fee includes a patient visit that involves at least 15 minutes of physician time. 
b) Visits in excess of one every 90 days, or visits involving less than 15 minutes of physician 
time, should be billed using appropriate visit codes (e.g. code 5B).

6. More Than One Condition:

a) If the patient has more than one of these conditions, they will be dealt with at the same 
visit. 
b) An approved patient CDM flow sheet must be completed for each condition and at least 5 
minutes of additional physician time per condition will be spent.

7. Per "Documentation Requirements for the Purposes of Billing", all time-based codes must 
have the start and stop times documented in the medical record.

«CODE:64B» Chronic Disease Management -- base fee $39.10

Add one or more of the following fees for chronic condition(s) assessed during the visit:

«CODE:65B» Diabetes mellitus 
-- add    - billable for diagnostic codes:  250 $39.10
«CODE:66B» Coronary artery disease
-- add   - billable for diagnostic codes:  410-414 inclusive $39.10
«CODE:67B» Heart failure 
-- add   - billable for diagnostic codes:  425, 428, 429 $39.10
«CODE:68B» COPD
-- add    - billable for diagnostic codes:  490, 491, 492, 496, 518, 519 $39.10

Examples:

• If a patient has coronary artery disease, the physician can bill fee 64B and 66B with the 
completion of a flow sheet after 15 minutes of physician time.

• If a physician sees a patient with more than one chronic disease such as diabetes and coronary 
artery disease, they would bill fee 64B, 65B and 66B with the completion of a both flow sheets 
after 20 minutes of physician time.

«L2:Emergency Medicine-Visits»

1. The following apply to services provided by scheduled on-site physicians providing services 
in hospital emergency departments.

2. Surcharges are not payable with these codes. 

3. Other procedures and visits shall be billed using the General Practice codes and fees as listed 
in the various sections.

4. Physicians (e.g. on call) who choose to attend their patients in the Emergency Department, 
but who are not the designated emergency physicians as defined above, shall not bill these 
service codes but shall use the appropriate general practice codes (i.e. 3B and 5B). 

5. Physicians scheduled to work in hospital emergency departments on a call-in basis as 
opposed to an on-site basis shall not bill these services, but shall use the appropriate 
General Practice codes.

6. These services are not to be used for free-standing treatment centers or non-hospital 
emergency clinics

7. Service codes 73B and 85B are eligible for increased compensation when providing an 
eligible visit service for a patient over 54 years of age.  See Preamble at the beginning of the 
section for details.

«CODE:73B*» Complete assessment --includes:  $86.00

a) pertinent family history;
b) patient history;
c) history of presenting complaint; 
d) functional enquiry;
e) examination of all parts and systems;
f) diagnosis;
g) assessment; 
h) necessary treatment;
i) advice to the patient; and,
j) record of service provided.

«CODE:85B*» Partial assessment or subsequent visit --includes:  $43.05

a) history review;
b) history of presenting complaint;
c) functional enquiry;
d) examination of affected part(s) or
system(s);
e) diagnosis;
f) assessment; 
g) necessary treatment;
h) advice to the patient; and, 
i) record of service provided

*  Payment for patients 0-5 years of age is automatically applied. See Section A-Pediatric Visit  
Age Supplement for details.

«L2:Spinal Pathway»

The Spinal Pathway code provides payment to physicians for the time they spend completing 
and recording a spinal assessment algorithm using the approved Spinal Pathway Form.
«CODE:200B» Spinal pathway $15.00

1. Physicians that have completed the Saskatchewan Spine Pathways course, "Assessment and 
Management of Low Back Pain" are eligible to bill this code.

2. This code may be billed once per acute or chronic episode that requires completing the 
"Spinal Pathway" form and algorithm.

«L2:Chronic Pain Management»

Entitlement Criteria:  Chronic Pain Management initial and follow-up pain assessments (205B, 
206B) are payable to general practitioners who have applied to and have been granted approval 
from the Saskatchewan Medical Association Tariff Committee.

Approval will be based upon a combination of the following criteria: proof of expertise in chronic 
pain management (examples of proof must include at least two of the following: education, 
training, experience and references), AND a letter of recommendation from the College of 
Physicians and Surgeons of Saskatchewan based upon information from the Prescription Review 
Program and Quality of Care Department.

@ For the purposes of billing, 205B and 206B are payable on the date that the approval from
the SMA Tariff Committee is granted to the general practitioner.  See "Services Billable by
Entitlement".

The initial assessment is payable to general practitioners once per patient every 5 years where a 
minimum of 45 minutes is spent on the following:

1. Complete medical assessment and documentation of:

a) medical history;
b) psychiatric history;
c)     family history; 
d) allergy and intolerance history;
e) pertinent physical examination;
f)    pertinent past medical investigations and treatments; and
g) pain diagnosis and type (nociceptive, neuropathic, mixed, central).

2. Pain diagram, brief pain inventory and the DN4 Neuropathic Pain questionnaire.

3. Addiction screening including Opioid Risk Tool score (ORT).

4. Current psychological evaluation including one (1) or more of the following tools: 
a) Beck's Inventory; 
b) Hospital Anxiety and Depression Score (HADS);
c)     PHQ-9 or equivalent; or.
d) Pain Catastrophizing score (PCS).

5. Medication history including current medications (with verification by accessing the 
Pharmaceutical Information Program) and past medications trialed for the pain condition.

6. Opioid use agreement/informed consent and urine drug test (UDT) if opioids are considered

7. Initial education on chronic pain as a disease and self-management.

8. The required documents can be found on the Saskatchewan Medical Association website 
(www.sma.sk.ca), or an equivalent EMR checklist system can be used.

9. Per "Documentation Requirements for the Purposes of Billing", all time-based codes must 
have the start and stop times documented in the medical record.

«CODE:~205B» Chronic Pain Management - Initial Assessment $203.90

```
«L2:Chronic Pain Management»

Entitlement Criteria: Chronic Pain Management initial and follow-up pain assessments (205B, 206B) are payable to general practitioners who have applied to and have been granted approval from the Saskatchewan Medical Association Tariff Committee.

Approval will be based upon a combination of the following criteria: proof of expertise in chronic pain management (examples of proof must include at least two of the following: education, training, experience and references), AND a letter of recommendation from the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Saskatchewan based upon information from the Prescription Review Program and Quality of Care Department.

@ For the purposes of billing, 205B and 206B are payable on the date that the approval from the SMA Tariff Committee is granted to the general practitioner. See "Services Billable by Entitlement".

The follow-up assessment is payable to general practitioners once per patient every 90 days to the same physician who provided the initial assessment, where a minimum of 15 minutes is spent on the following:

1. Physicians must track patient care using the approved check list on the Saskatchewan Medical Association website (www.sma.sk.ca) or equivalent Electronic Medical Record (EMR) tracking system, which would include an assessment of:

a) Analgesia (pain scores);
b) Activities, including physical and psychosocial functioning;
c) Adverse effects (analysis of side effects that have occurred and physician recommendations to address);
d) Aberrant drug-taking behaviour with physician advice as necessary;
e) Accurate medication record outlining exact medication, dose, frequency of use and amount prescribed; and
f) Effect on patient's mood and mental health status.

2. The above will include a brief pain inventory (BPI), urine drug screen, update of Beck's (or equivalent) Depression/Anxiety score.

3. Visits in excess of annual limits (or those lasting less than 15 minutes' duration) would be billed using the partial assessment (5B) fee.

4. Physicians are expected to schedule the patient's follow-up visit before the pain prescription runs out.

5. Per "Documentation Requirements for the Purposes of Billing", all time-based codes must have the start and stop times documented in the medical record.

«CODE:~206B» Chronic Pain Management – Follow-up Assessment    $69.90

«L2:HIV/AIDS – Primary Care Management»

HIV/AIDS management is payable to general practitioners responsible for the primary care of patients with a diagnosis of HIV/AIDS once per patient every 90 days for the following:

a) Review of medication and/or antiviral therapy; and

b) Review and/or ordering of diagnostic and/or screening tests, such as lab work, (ie: CD4 counts, viral loads), tuberculosis, vaccinations, chest x-rays, hepatitis screening, etc; and

c) Completion of approved flow sheets/templates with care consistent with approved guidelines; and

d) Assessment of vital signs, weight, and body mass index (BMI), noting any abnormalities and/or changes in general appearance, body habitus, physical well-being, frailty, and mobility; and

e) Review of current and past medical history, any relevant changes in social or family history, current functional inquiry and review of systems; and

f) Review and management of any relevant underlying co-morbid conditions; and

g) Review and evaluation of any substance or alcohol use; and

h) Review of any psychosocial implications or factors; and

i) Patient education and/or counselling regarding HIV/AIDS care.

• Visits in excess of quarterly (90-day) limits would be billed using other applicable fee codes (ie: partial assessment (5B)) when all criteria of those codes are met;

• Per "Documentation Requirements for the Purposes of Billing", the documentation must demonstrate that all of the above components were performed;

• No time-of-day premiums are eligible except in-office premium "F"; and
• No surcharges/special calls are billable, as this is considered a prearranged service.

«CODE:207B» HIV/AIDS – Primary Care Management    $79.60

«L2:Advanced Primary Health Care for Pediatric Patients – Psychiatric Care»

Billable time includes history taking, diagnostic formulation according to Child Psychiatry Principles and appropriate psychopharmacology, counselling and record keeping. It may include collection and review of data from collateral sources (ie: parents/caregivers, significant relatives, social workers, teachers, and allied health care professionals -- see "Definitions" section).

«CODE:~163B» Advanced Primary Health Care for Pediatric Patients – Psychiatric Care, first 15 minutes – must be 15 minutes of direct patient care.    $58.90

«CODE:~164B» Advanced Primary Health Care for Pediatric Patients – Psychiatric Care, each subsequent 15 minutes (or major portion thereof) – max 2 units billable – may be direct or indirect patient care which includes collection, review and any discussion related to collateral history from a person who has close knowledge of a patient under the care of or treatment by the physician. May be done either in-person or by telephone, facsimile, email or other electronic means.    $58.90

@ Physicians with training approved by the Saskatchewan Medical Association Tariff Committee. For the purposes of billing, 163B and 164B are billable on the date that the approval is granted to the physician. See "Services Billable by Entitlement".

«L2:Virtual Care Services»

Please see Virtual Care preamble in the introductory section of the Payment Schedule for more information.

«CODE:805B» Virtual partial assessment or subsequent virtual visit provided via telephone or secure videoconference-- includes:    $38.75

a) history review;

b) history of presenting complaint;

c) functional enquiry;

d) assessment;

e) diagnosis;

f) necessary treatment;

g) advice to the patient; and

h) record of service provided.

Use 855B instead of 805B for a virtual visit where a specialist referral is made and continue using 805B for virtual visits where a specialist referral is not made

«CODE:855B» Virtual partial assessment or subsequent virtual visit provided via telephone or secure videoconference, involving a specialist referral - includes:    $38.75

a) history review;

b) history of presenting complaint;

c) functional enquiry;

d) assessment;

e) diagnosis;

f) necessary treatment;

g) advice to the patient; and

h) record of service provided.

«CODE:809B» Virtual consultation provided via telephone or secure videoconference-- includes:    $81.20

a) all visits necessary;

b) history;

c) review of laboratory and/or other data; and

d) written submission of the consultant's opinion and recommendations to the referring doctor

«CODE:811B» Repeat virtual consultation provided via telephone or secure videoconference:    $41.90

A formal virtual consultation for the same or related condition repeated within 90 days by the same physician. Repeat virtual consultation is only to be billed when it is generated by a new formal request by the referring physician. It should not be used for routine virtual follow-up of the patient for which service code '805B' "Virtual partial assessment or subsequent virtual visit" is appropriate.

«L3:Virtual Counselling»

1. Virtual counselling is where the physician engages with the patient on an individual basis, via telephone or secure videoconference, where the goal of the physician and patient is to become aware of the patient's problems or situation and of the modalities for prevention and/or treatment.

2. Virtual counselling can also include an educational dialogue with the patient regarding prevention/health promotion, early detection of health problems, environmental issues related to the patient's health and occupational health and safety.

3. Payment for this service implies that it is a discrete service provided by the physician personally.

4. It is not a substitute for a virtual visit involving a partial examination or assessment.

5. This code is not to be used simply because a virtual assessment and/or treatment took 15 minutes or longer, such as in the case of multiple complaints.

6. Per "Documentation Requirements for the Purposes of Billing", all time-based codes must have the start and stop times documented in the medical record.

«L3:Virtual Third-Party Counselling»

1. It is payable on a third-party basis when a family member is counselled via telephone or secure videoconference because of the patient's serious and complex problem.

2. It is not payable for routine briefing or advice to relatives, which is considered part of the visit service fee.

3. Third-party counselling must be provided at a booked separate appointment.

4. Third-party counselling claims are subject to a maximum of 30 minutes and should be submitted in the counselled individual's name.

5. Diagnosis must be confirmed or the diagnostic code Z84 must be indicated.

6. May be billed by any physician.

Third party counselling for the provision of Medical Assistance in Dying (MAID) services provided by a willing practitioner:

1. 840B is billable on a third-party basis when a family member, caregiver, relative, friend, spouse, etc. is counselled via telephone or secure videoconference because of the patient's request for Medical Assistance in Dying (MAID) services.

2. Third-party counselling for the provision of MAID claims should be submitted in the name of the patient requesting MAID services (not the family member, relative, caregiver, etc).

3. Diagnosis must be Z37 (third party counselling, MAID).

«CODE:840B» Virtual counselling provided via telephone or secure videoconference – first 15 minutes, includes:    $49.40

a) history review;    d) intervention;

b) counselling;    e) record of service provided; and

c) educational dialogue;    f) time spent counselling.

«CODE:841B» Virtual counselling provided via telephone or secure videoconference – next 15 minutes or major portion thereof.    $41.80

841B is to a maximum of 7 additional units (105 minutes), unless stipulated otherwise i.e., third party counselling is payable to a maximum of 1 additional unit (15 minutes).

For clarity: The combination of 840B and 841B is payable to a maximum of 120 minutes total; i.e., 840B + 841B x 7. For third party counselling, the two service codes are payable to a maximum of 30 minutes total; i.e., 840B + 841B x 1.

«L3:Virtual Chronic Disease Management»

1. Virtual Chronic Disease Management (VCDM) fees are designed as an adjunct to the use of accepted clinical care pathways to optimize the patient management and the provision of in-person chronic disease management.

a) For the physician's first VCDM billing to be payable, the physician must have seen the patient in-person, submitted a CDM fee claim for the patient with the comment: "will be providing ongoing care to the patient".

b) VCDM does not satisfy the following Quality Improvement Payment criteria:

Physicians must have billed at least one CDM base fee code (64B) for the patient within the 12-month period.

2. VCDM fees are billable only for patients with a confirmed diagnosis of diabetes mellitus, coronary artery disease (CAD), heart failure or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) who require ongoing longitudinal care management of these diseases that may be safely and effectively provided via telephone of secure video technology.

3. Frequency:

a) VCDM fees are billable only once per patient, every 90 days; a maximum of two virtual chronic disease management services per patient, per year are payable and must be preceded by at least one (1) in-person CDM visit.

b) To initiate billing of the VCDM service code, the physician's first CDM fee claim for the patient must be in-person and include the comment: "will be providing ongoing care to the patient".

c) Subsequent (after 90 days) VCDM and CDM fee claims must be consecutive and continuous for the same patient by the same physician or clinic and will not require a comment.

d) One chronic disease management service (either VCDM or CDM) fee is billable per patient, every 90 days; a maximum of four chronic disease management services (i.e., combination of VCDM—not to exceed maximum stipulated in (a) above—or in-person CDM services per patient, per year are payable.

4. Time Spent With Patient:

a) The VCDM fee includes a patient visit that involves at least 15 minutes of direct physician to patient interaction in real-time consistent with approved guidelines, but does not require a CDM flowsheet.

b) Virtual chronic disease management visits in excess of one every 90 days, or virtual visits involving less than 15 minutes of physician to patient interaction in real-time, should be billed using appropriate virtual care visit codes (e.g. 805B).

5. More Than One Condition:

a) If the patient has more than one of these conditions, they will be dealt with at the same virtual visit.

6. Per "Documentation Requirements for the Purposes of Billing", all time-based codes must have the start and stop times documented in the medical record.

7. Not billable with any additional service codes by the same physician on the same day.

«CODE:864B» Virtual Chronic Disease Management (VCDM) provided via telephone or secure videoconference --    $35.20

When medically required, VCDM service includes, but is not limited to (i.e., this is not an exhaustive list):

a) Review of medications and discussions about any side effects/adherence issues;

b) Contraception or preconception planning in women with diabetes;

c) Lifestyle, nutrition, diet and physical activity review;

d) Discussion of any significant changes to medications or other management;

e) Therapy adherence/comment;

f) Patient goals/self-management; advanced care planning/health care directive.

«L1:SECTION C – Pediatrics»

«L2:Visits»

«CODE:3C*» Complete assessment -- includes:    $124.00    $111.60

a) pertinent family history;
b) patient history;
c) history of presenting complaint;
d) functional enquiry;
e) examination of all parts and systems;
f) diagnosis;
g) assessment;
h) necessary treatment;
i) advice to the patient; and,
j) record of service provided.

«CODE:4C*» Well baby care in office -- refers to the periodic office visits during the first year of life of a healthy infant and includes:    $46.50    $41.85

a) the necessary weights and measurements;
b) examination;
c) instruction to the parent regarding health care; and,
d) record of service provided.

«CODE:5C*» Partial assessment or subsequent visit -- includes:    $70.00    $63.00

a) history review;
b) history of presenting complaint;
c) functional enquiry;
d) examination of affected part(s) or system(s);
e) diagnosis;
f) assessment;
g) necessary treatment;
h) advice to the patient; and,
i) record of service provided.

«CODE:9C*» Consultation—includes:    $184.75

a) all visits necessary;
b) history and examination;
c) review of laboratory and/or other data;
d) written submission of the consultant's opinion; and,
e) recommendations to the referring doctor.

«CODE:11C*» Repeat consultation    $63.00

A formal consultation for the same or related condition repeated within 90 days by the same physician. Repeat consultation is only to be billed when it is generated by a new formal request by the referring physician. It should not be used for routine follow-up of the patient for which service code 5C "partial assessment or subsequent review" is appropriate.

Extended/Complex Pediatric Consultation - for complex behavioural, neurodevelopmental, and/or psychiatric conditions in a child age 17 and under – includes:

a) physical exam;
b) review of history/lab/x-ray;
c) collection and review of data from collateral sources (parents, social workers, teachers, speech pathologists, allied health professionals, etc);
d) counseling of patient and/or family;
e) generation of referrals to other support agencies; and
f) preparation of report.

1. Stop and start times must be included on the claim and in the patient record.
2. Maximum of one (1) per patient per physician per 12-month period.
3. Any follow-up assessments should be billed using 14C or 5C.

«CODE:12C*» Extended/Complex Pediatric Consultation - per complete 45-minute time-period spent directly with the patient    $223.50

«CODE:13C*» Extended/Complex Pediatric Consultation - for each additional 15 minutes, or major portion thereof, spent directly with the patient – bill units (max 9)    $60.60

«CODE:14C*» Complex partial assessment or subsequent visit - for eligible conditions:    $130.25    $117.10

a) history review;
b) history of presenting complaint;
c) functional enquiry;
d) examination of affected part(s) or system(s);
e) diagnosis;
f) assessment;
g) necessary treatment;
h) advice to the patient; and,
i) record of service provided.

Per "Documentation Requirements for the Purposes of Billing", all time-based codes must have the start and stop times documented in the medical record.

For Pediatric (under age 18) patient visits that involve at least 15 minutes physician time and the following eligible conditions:

• AIDS; Other human immunodeficiency virus infection
• Ankylosing Spondylitis and other Seronegative Spondyloarthropathies;
• Anorexia Nervosa;
• Anxiety/Mood Disorders;
• Asthma;
• Behavioural disorders of childhood and adolescence;
• Cerebral Palsy;
• Child Psychosis or Autism;
• Chromosomal Anomalies;
• Chronic Hepatitis;
• Chronic Lung Disease;
• Chronic Respiratory Failure;
• Coagulation defects (e.g. Hemophilia, other factor deficiencies);
• Congenital Heart Disease;
• Congestive Heart Failure;
• Diabetes Mellitus, including complications;
• Epilepsy;
• Foster Care Child;
• Hemorrhagic conditions (e.g. thrombocytopenia purpura);
• Hypertension;
• Inflammatory Bowel Disease;
• Multiple Sclerosis;
• Myelomeningocele;
• Panhypopituitarism;
• Physical and Sexual Neglect and Abuse
• Pulmonary Fibrosis;
• Renal Failure;
• Specific delays in development (e.g. Dyslexia, Dyslalia, Motor Retardation);
• Systemic Lupus Erythematosus, Scleroderma, Polymyositis, Dermatomyositis;
• Systemic Vasculitis;
• Technology Dependent (tube fed, tracheostomy, CPAP, oxygen dependent)

* Payment for patients 0-5 years of age and older are automatically applied.

Pediatric Counselling - where the pediatrician engages with the patient and/or relatives/caregivers where the goal is to become aware of the child's problem and/or to provide comprehensive advice related to the modalities for prevention and/or treatment due to the seriousness and complexity of the issue – includes:

a) History review;
b) Counselling;
c) Educational dialogue;
d) Intervention and/or treatment;
e) Record of service provided, and;
f) Time spent counselling.

1. Stop and start times must be included on the claim and in the patient record.
2. It is not payable for routine briefing or advice to relatives/caregivers, which is considered part of the visit service fee (ie: (9C, 3C, 5C, 14C, etc).
3. It is not a substitute for a visit involving an initial or partial examination or assessment (14C, 5C, 3C, etc).
4. This code is not to be used because an assessment (9C, 14C, 5C, 3C, etc) and/or treatment took 15 minutes or longer, such as in the case of multiple complaints.
5. Maximum of 2 per child per physician per year.
6. Third party counseling must be billed in the name of the child using ICD diagnostic code Z84. The name and relationship to the child must be included with the claim.

«CODE:15C» Pediatric counselling - per first complete 15-minute time period for time spent directly with the child and/or relatives/caregivers counselling    $60.50    $60.50

«CODE:16C» Pediatric counselling - for each additional 15-minute time period, or major portion thereof, for time spent directly with the patient and/or relatives/caregivers counselling – bill units (max 3)    $60.50    $60.50

«L2:Hospital Care - Payable on day of admission»

Hospital care is billable by the physician responsible for inpatient care of patients admitted to hospital. Hospital care includes all of the routine services required to manage in hospital care. Additional services provided as a result of an acute episode may be payable with an explanation.

Post-operative hospital care is included in the surgical fee and can only be paid if hospital care is provided by another physician for a condition unrelated to the surgery. Upon transfer of hospital care to another physician, billing of hospital care should be as if there was a continuation of care under the same physician. An assessment or consultation may not be billed when hospital care is transferred to another physician.

Hospital care may be billed for short term acute care patients who are admitted to a health centre in the same manner as an acute care hospital. Physicians may not use hospital care to cover in-hospital patients who are designated as long-term care. These patients are to be billed under codes 627A-629A – Special Care Home Management.

«CODE:25C» -- 1-10 days -- per day -- bill units (max 10)    $36.25    $36.25
«CODE:26C» -- 11-20 days -- per day -- bill units (max 10)    $36.25    $36.25
«CODE:27C» -- 21-30 days -- per day -- bill units (max 10)    $36.25    $36.25
«CODE:28C» -- 31 days and thereafter -- per day -- bill units (max 99)    $36.25    $36.25

* Payment for patients 0-5 years of age and older are automatically applied.

«L2:Virtual Care Services»

Please see Virtual Care preamble in the introductory section of the Payment Schedule for more information.

«CODE:805C» Virtual partial assessment or subsequent virtual visit provided via telephone or secure videoconference-- includes:    $63.00    $56.70

a) history review;

b) history of presenting complaint;

c) functional enquiry;

d) assessment;

e) diagnosis;

f) necessary treatment;

g) advice to the patient; and

h) record of service provided.

«CODE:809C» Virtual consultation provided via telephone or secure videoconference-- includes:    $166.30

a) all visits necessary;

b) history;

c) review of laboratory and/or other data;

d) written submission of the consultant's opinion; and

e) recommendations to the referring doctor.

«CODE:811C» Repeat virtual consultation provided via telephone or secure videoconference:    $56.70

A formal virtual consultation for the same or related condition repeated within 90 days by the same physician. Repeat virtual consultation is only to be billed when it is generated by a new formal request by the referring physician. It should not be used for routine virtual follow-up of the patient for which service code '805C' "Virtual partial assessment or subsequent virtual visit" is appropriate.
```

«L1:SECTION C – Pediatrics»
    Specialist in Pediatrics 
 
 
Referred 
Not 
Referred 
 
«L2:Virtual Pediatric Counselling»
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Virtual pediatric counselling is where the pediatrician engages, via telephone or secure 
videoconference, with the patient and/or relatives/caregivers where the goal is to become 
aware of the child's problem and/or to provide comprehensive advice related to the 
modalities for prevention and/or treatment due to the seriousness and complexity of the 
issue – includes:  
 
 
 
a) history review; 
 
 
 
b) counselling; 
 
 
 
c) educational dialogue; 
 
 
 
d) intervention and/or treatment;   
 
 
 
e) record of service provided; and  
 
 
 
f) time spent counselling.   
 
 
 
1. Stop and start times must be included on the claim and in the patient record.  
 
 
 
2. It is not payable for routine virtual briefing or advice to relatives/caregivers, which is 
considered part of the visit service fee (i.e., 805C, 809C, etc).  
 
 
 
3. It is not a substitute for a visit involving a virtual partial assessment (805C).  
 
 
 
4. This code is not to be used because a virtual assessment (805C, 809C) and/or treatment 
took 15 minutes or longer, such as in the case of multiple complaints.  
 
 
 
5. Maximum of 2 (in-person or virtual) per child per physician per year.  
 
 
 
6. Third party counseling must be billed in the name of the child using ICD diagnostic code 
Z84. The name and relationship to the child must be included with the claim.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:815C» Virtual Pediatric counselling provided via telephone or secure videoconference – per first 
15-minute time-period for time spent virtually with the child and/or relatives/caregivers 
counselling  
$50.40 
$50.40 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:816C» Virtual Pediatric counselling provided via telephone or secure videoconference - for each 
additional 15-minute time-period, or major portion thereof, for time spent virtually with the 
patient and/or relatives/caregivers counselling – bill units (max 3)  
$50.40 
$50.40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- Page 132 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 132
 
 
 
 
 
 
BLANK PAGE INTENTIONAL 

--- Page 133 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 133
 
 
«L1:SECTION C – Pediatrics»
Specialist 
General 
Practitioner 
Class 
Anes 
 
«L2:Procedures»
 
 
 
 
 
Additional payments for diagnostic service excluding ECGs, 0, 10 or 42 day 
operative procedures performed on patients under one (1) year of age are 
automatically calculated and paid as explained in Section A. 
 
«CODE:35C» Exchange transfusion – first 
$152.90 
$137.60 
0 
 
«CODE:36C» Exchange transfusion – repeat 
$152.60 
$137.20 
0 
 
«CODE:37C» Fontanel or jugular or femoral vein puncture 
$10.20 
$9.20 
D 
 
«CODE:38C» Duodenal intubation for analysis 
$15.80 
$14.30 
D 
 
«CODE:39C» Attendance at intrauterine fetal transfusion 
$71.40 
 
0 
 
«CODE:40C» Cannulization of umbilical artery in the newborn 
$51.00 
$45.90 
0 
 
«CODE:41C» Cannulization of umbilical vein in the newborn 
$45.00 
$40.50 
0 
 
«CODE:42C» Growth hormone studies -- 2-hour insulin IV infusion 
$254.90 
 
D 
 
«CODE:43C» Growth hormone studies -- subsequent arginine IV infusion (includes IV 
infusion set up, blood collection and treatment of side effects and/or 
complications) 
$76.50 
 
D 
 
«CODE:50C» Rashkind Septostomy 
$356.80 
$321.10 
10 
 
«CODE:60C» Cardiorespirogram -- interpretation 
$26.30 
 
D 
 
 
The following codes are for use by pediatric cardiologists for patients 
diagnosed with congenital heart disease. 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:100C» Cardiac catheterization -- right heart  
$203.90 
 
D  
H 
 
-- 
to include catheter insertion and any or all of RA, RV, PA, and PAW 
pressures. 
 
 
 
 
 
-- 
not to be billed during a routine coronary angiogram. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:105C» Cardiac catheterization -- left retrograde, includes catheter insertion and 
LV and AO pressures. 
$203.90 
 
D  
H 
«CODE:110C» Oximetry during cardiac catheterization 
$102.00 
 
D 
 
«CODE:115C» Transluminal angioplasty -- pulmonary valve or artery 
$509.80 
 
10  
H 
«CODE:120C» Balloon dilation of conduit or graft 
$509.80 
 
10  
H 
«CODE:125C» Stent placement in aorta pulmonary artery or conduit 
$611.70 
 
10 
H 
«CODE:130C» Balloon dilatation of coarcation of aorta 
$509.80 
 
10 
H 
«CODE:135C» Atrial septal puncture by Brockenbrough needle 
$305.90 
 
10 
H 
«CODE:140C» Pulmonary angiography 
$152.90 
 
D 
 
«CODE:155C» Pulmonary hypertension studies 
$407.80 
 
D 
 
«CODE:145C» Angiocardiography -- right and/or left side 
$152.90 
 
D 
H 
«CODE:150C» Fetal echocardiogram and fetal rhythm 
$156.00 
 
D 
H 
 

--- Page 134 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 134
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BLANK PAGE INTENTIONAL 

--- Page 135 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 135
 
 
«L1:SECTION D – Internal Medicine»
Specialist in Internal 
Medicine 
 
 
Referred 
Not  
referred 
 
 
 
 
 
«L2:Visits»
 
 
«CODE:3D*» Complete assessment -- includes:  
$103.85 
$83.00 
 
a) pertinent family history; 
b) patient history; 
c) history of presenting complaint; 
d) functional enquiry; 
e) examination of all parts and systems; 
f) diagnosis; 
g) assessment; 
h) necessary treatment; 
i) advice to the patient; and, 
j) record of service provided. 
 
 
«CODE:5D*» Partial assessment or subsequent visit – includes: 
$97.65 
$67.40 
 
a) history review; 
b) history of presenting complaint; 
c) functional enquiry; 
d) examination of affected part(s) or system(s); 
e) diagnosis; 
f) assessment; 
g) necessary treatment; 
h) advice to the patient; and, 
i) record of service provided. 
 
 
«CODE:9D*» Consultation – includes: 
a) all visits necessary; 
b) history and examination; 
c) review of laboratory and/or other data; and, 
d) written submission of the consultant's opinion; and 
e) recommendations to the referring doctor.  
$192.00 
 
 
«CODE:11D*» Repeat Consultation 
$100.00 
 
 
A formal consultation for the same or related condition repeated within 90 days by the 
same physician.  Repeat consultation is only to be billed when it is generated by a new 
formal request by the referring physician. It should not be used for routine follow-up of 
the patient for which either service code '5' "partial assessment or subsequent review" or 
service code '7' "follow-up assessment" are appropriate. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
* 
Payment for patients 0-5 years of age and patients 65 years of age and older are 
automatically applied. 
 

--- Page 136 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 136
 
 
«L1:SECTION D – Internal Medicine»
Specialist in Internal 
Medicine 
 
 
Referred 
Not  
referred 
 
 
 
 
 
Comprehensive Geriatric Consultation – For patients 65 years and older. Consultation 
must include the following six components: 
 
1. Medical: Includes but is not limited to a complete history, physical examination, a 
problem list, comorbidity conditions and disease severity, nutritional status, and 
review of medication, laboratory and/or other data. 
 
2. Functional: Includes but is not limited to a review of basic and instrumental activities 
of daily living, activity and exercise status, gait, balance and risk of falls. 
 
3. Cognitive/psychological: Includes but is not limited to review of mental status, 
cognitive assessment and mood/depression. Must include any testing (i.e. MMSE, 
MiniCog, ACE, Geriatric Depression Scale) when clinically appropriate.  
 
4. Social: Includes but is not limited to a review of formal and informal support needs 
and assets, care resource eligibility and a financial assessment. 
 
5. Environmental: Includes but is not limited to a review of current living situation, 
home safety and transportation. 
 
6. Recommendation: 
Written 
submission 
of 
the 
consultant's 
opinion 
and 
recommendations to the referring doctor.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Per "Documentation Requirements for the Purposes of Billing", the record must 
demonstrate that all of the above components were performed and include stop and start 
times. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:~12D» Comprehensive geriatric consultation – 65 years and older. Minimum 90 minutes of 
direct in-person patient care. Maximum of 1 per patient by any physician per 12-month 
period. 
$350.00 
 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:~13D» Extended comprehensive geriatric consultation – add on to 12D, max 6 units. Each 
complete 15-minute period or major portion thereof of direct in-person patient care. 
$50.00 
 
 
 
 
 
 
@  
Entitlement is limited to certified geriatricians or internal medicine specialists with 
appropriate training in geriatric medicine as approved by the Saskatchewan Medical 
Association Tariff Committee. 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- Page 137 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 137
 
 
«L1:SECTION D – Internal Medicine»
Specialist in Internal 
Medicine 
 
 
Referred 
Not  
referred 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:14D*» Complex partial assessment or subsequent visit for eligible conditions -- includes:  
$131.85 
$118.75 
 
a) history review; 
b) history of presenting complaint; 
c) functional enquiry; 
d) examination of affected part(s) or system(s); 
e) diagnosis; 
f) 
assessment; 
g) necessary treatment; 
h) advice to the patient; and, 
i) 
record of service provided. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Per "Documentation Requirements for the Purposes of Billing", all time-based codes must 
have the start and stop times documented in the medical record. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For patient visits that involve at least 15 minutes physician time and the following eligible 
conditions: 
 
 
 
• 
Adult onset of Still's Disease;  
• 
AIDS; Other HIV infection;  
• 
Ankylosing Spondylitis, and other seronegative spondyloarthropathies;  
• 
Asthma;  
• 
CAD, CHF, COPD; 
• 
Chronic Hepatitis;  
• 
Chronic Kidney Disease 
• 
Chronic Lung Disease;  
• 
Chronic Respiratory Failure;  
• 
Cirrhosis;  
• 
Coagulation defects (e.g. hemophilia, other factor  deficiencies);  
• 
Diabetes Mellitus, including complications; 
• 
Hemorrhagic conditions (eg: thrombocytopenia purpura) 
• 
Hypertension with complications;  
• 
Inflammatory Bowel Disease;  
• 
Panhypopituitarism;  
• 
Pulmonary Fibrosis;  
• 
Rheumatoid Arthritis; 
• 
Sleep Apnea with complications;  
• 
Systemic Lupus Erythematosus, Scleroderma, Polymyositis, Dermatomyositis;  
• 
Systemic Vasculitis;  
• 
Technology Dependent (e.g. tube fed, tracheostomy, CPAP, oxygen dependent). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- Page 138 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 138
 
 
 
«L1:SECTION D – Internal Medicine»
Specialist in Internal 
Medicine 
 
 
Referred 
Not  
referred 
 
 
 
 
 
«L2:Hospital Care – Payable on day of admission»
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hospital care is billable by the physician responsible for inpatient care of patients 
admitted to hospital. Hospital care includes all of the routine services required to 
manage in hospital care. Additional services provided as a result of an acute episode 
may be payable with an explanation. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Post-operative hospital care is included in the surgical fee and can only be paid if 
hospital care is provided by another physician for a condition unrelated to the surgery. 
Upon transfer of hospital care to another physician, billing of hospital care should be as 
if there was a continuation of care under the same physician. An assessment or 
consultation may not be billed when hospital care is transferred to another physician. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hospital care may be billed for short term acute care patients who are admitted to a 
health centre in the same manner as an acute care hospital. Physicians may not use 
hospital care to cover in-hospital patients who are designated as long-term care. These 
patients are to be billed under codes 627A-629A – Special Care Home Management. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:25D» -- 1-10 days 
-- per day -- bill units (max 10) 
$44.65 
$44.65 
«CODE:26D» -- 11-20 days 
-- per day -- bill units (max 10) 
$41.00 
$41.00 
«CODE:27D» -- 21-30 days 
-- per day -- bill units (max 10) 
$35.00 
$35.00 
«CODE:28D» -- 31 days and thereafter 
-- per day -- bill units (max 99) 
$35.00 
$35.00 
 
 
 
 

--- Page 139 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 139
 
 
«L1:SECTION D – Internal Medicine»
Specialist in Internal 
Medicine 
 
 
Referred 
Not  
referred 
 
 
 
 
 
«L2:Virtual Care Services»
 
 
 
Please see Virtual Care preamble in the introductory section of the Payment Schedule for 
more information. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:805D» Virtual partial assessment or subsequent virtual visit provided via telephone or secure 
videoconference-- includes: 
$87.90 
$60.70 
 
a) history review; 
 
 
 
b) history of presenting complaint; 
 
 
 
c) functional enquiry; 
 
 
 
d) assessment;  
 
 
 
e) diagnosis;  
 
 
 
f) necessary treatment;  
 
 
 
g) advice to the patient; and 
 
 
 
h) record of service provided. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:809D» Virtual consultation provided via telephone or secure videoconference-- includes: 
$172.80 
 
 
a) all visits necessary;  
 
 
 
b) history; 
 
 
 
c) review of laboratory and/or other data;  
 
 
 
d) written submission of the consultant's opinion; and 
 
 
 
e) recommendations to the referring doctor. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:811D» Repeat virtual consultation provided via telephone or secure videoconference: 
$90.00 
 
 
A formal virtual consultation for the same or related condition repeated within 90 days by 
the same physician. Repeat virtual consultation is only to be billed when it is generated by a 
new formal request by the referring physician. It should not be used for routine virtual 
follow-up of the patient for which service code '805D' "Virtual partial assessment or 
subsequent virtual visit" is appropriate. 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- Page 140 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 140
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BLANK PAGE INTENTIONAL

Looking at the PDF content provided, I can see this covers pages 141-150 of Section D (Internal Medicine) and the beginning of Section E (Psychiatry). Let me tag this content according to the instructions:

«L1:SECTION D – Internal Medicine»

«L2:Procedures»

Additional payments for diagnostic service excluding ECGs, 0, 10 or 42 day operative procedures performed on patients under one (1) year of age are automatically calculated and paid as explained in Section A.

«CODE:30D» Electrocardiogram or phonocardiogram -- tracing only $9.20 $9.20

«CODE:~31D» Electrocardiogram or phonocardiogram -- interpretation only $9.70 $9.70

(If multiple 31Ds are done on the same day, please use units and indicate the times as a comment. Interpretation should be billed using date of tracing)

«CODE:~32D» Electrocardiogram or phonocardiogram -- tracing and interpretation $18.90 $18.90

# Physicians listed by the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Saskatchewan as qualified

«CODE:35D» Tilt table test for syncope -- includes venous and/or arterial cannulation - provocative and/or blocking drugs -- physician in constant attendance $191.75 $172.60 D

«CODE:39D» Group exercise training sessions for cardiac or pulmonary rehabilitation patients in an approved facility - per patient $16.60 $16.60 D

Includes supervision and all other services provided during the session. The session is to be billed in the name of one patient using the number of services (units) to represent the number of patients, up to a maximum of ten.

Maximal or sub-maximal exercise tolerance test using a bicycle ergometer or treadmill with continuous ECG monitoring, full ECG(s), blood pressure monitoring:

«CODE:~62D» -- professional supervision and interpretation with physician in constant attendance -- in approved facility $91.00 $81.95 D

«CODE:~63D» -- technical (if equipment owned and staff employed by physician) See "Definitions" (19) and "Services Supervised by a Physician" $38.00 $38.00 D

# Payment for service by a general practitioner is limited to those physicians listed by the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Saskatchewan as being qualified to perform stress testing

«L3:Cardiopulmonary Exercise Testing»

«CODE:64D» Technical -- maximal incremental or endurance exercise testing on a treadmill or cycle ergometer with ECG monitoring, gas exchange measurements, and pre-/post- spirometry measurements (if equipment owned and staff employed by physician.) See "Definitions" (19) and "Services Supervised by a Physician"

a) Payable with code 67D and applicable visit.
b) Not payable with codes 63D, 601D, 603D, 611D, 613D. $177.00 $177.00 D

«CODE:67D» Professional --
a) Includes 62D, 600D, 602D, 610D, 612D, and 277D.
b) Payable with applicable visit. $166.20 $156.20 D

Stress echocardiography (applicable to treadmill, dobutamine and pacing stress echocardiography) -- physician in constant attendance. For billing of technical component see "Definitions" (19) and "Services Supervised by a Physician".

«CODE:65D» -- technical component $60.20  D

«CODE:66D» -- professional component $198.80  D

Continuous or intermittent electrocardiogram monitoring (e.g. Holter or Cardiocassette). For billing of technical component see "Definitions" (19) and "Services Supervised by a Physician".

«CODE:~141D» – interpretation/professional component $41.40 $41.40 D

«CODE:142D» -- technical component and scanning (if instruments owned by physician) $35.70 $35.70 D

«CODE:144D» Dipyridamole thallium test to include supervision of ETT, infusion of medication and interpretation $86.00  D

«CODE:145D» 24 hour ambulatory blood pressure monitoring - professional component only -- maximum per year: $27.10 $27.10 D

a) General Practitioners – 2 per patient, any physician;
b) Specialists – 3 per patient, any physician;
c) Maximum of 5 per patient total.

«CODE:42D» Cardiac arrhythmia cardioversion $111.10 $100.00 0 L

For billing of technical component see "Definitions" (19) and "Services Supervised by a Physician".

«CODE:50D» Electroencephalogram -- tracing/technical $23.20 $20.90 D

«CODE:51D» Electroencephalogram -- interpretation $32.00 $28.75 D

«CODE:59D» Electroclinical detailed interpretation of a set of seizures (Telemetry) $352.70 $317.50 D

For billing of technical component see "Definitions" (19) and "Services Supervised by a Physician".

«CODE:54D» Polysomnography -- technical component $46.40  D

«CODE:~55D» Polysomnography -- professional component $90.70 $81.60 D

«CODE:~56D» Electrocorticography $148.80 $134.00 D

«CODE:~57D» EEG monitoring during carotid endarterectomy $76.60 $68.90 D

«CODE:58D» Sodium Amytal testing $80.80 $72.80 D

«CODE:360D» Transcranial Doppler $51.00 $45.90 D

@ Physicians with written approval by the Saskatchewan Medical Association Tariff Committee. For the purposes of billing, 55D-57D is billable on the date that the approval is granted to the physician. See "Services Billable by Entitlement".

# Physicians listed by the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Saskatchewan as qualified

«L3:Pulmonary»

Measurement of subdivisions of lung volumes - TLC, FRC, VC, RV, TLV. For billing of technical component see "Definitions" (19) and "Services Supervised by a Physician".

«CODE:266D» -- interpretation/professional component $35.20 $31.70 D

«CODE:267D» -- technical component $27.70 $24.85 D

Lung diffusing capacity DLco with or without bronchodilators at rest and after exercise, each. For billing of technical component see "Definitions" (19) and "Services Supervised by a Physician".

«CODE:268D» -- professional component $35.20 $31.70 D

«CODE:269D» -- technical Component $24.60 $22.10 D

Full pulmonary function studies (including 600D-603D, 610D-613D, 266D & 268D). For billing of technical component see "Definitions" (19) and "Services Supervised by a Physician".

«CODE:69D» -- professional component $90.30 $81.30 D

«CODE:271D» -- technical component -- including 267D and 269D ( if instruments owned and staff employed by physician) $52.60 $47.40 D

Maximum payable for any combination of above non-technical tests (pulmonary) is not to exceed listed fee for 69D.

«L4:Spirometry – codes 600D-603D, 610-613D»

1. No visit service will be paid in addition to the following procedures if the patient's visit is for the procedure alone.

2. Must be performed according to ATS standards with or without flow volume curves or the test is not eligible for payment.

3. The interpretation and report should include at least the specific components listed under each test but the fee also covers all other measurements, interpretations and the report of them which can be derived from the test.

4. 600D-603D are not eligible for payment same patient same day as 610D-613D.

5. Not payable when rendered to a patient who does not have symptoms, signs or an indication supported by current clinical practice guidelines relevant to the individual patient's circumstances.

Simple Spirometry

• Must include FVC, FEV1, FEV1/FVC & may include calculation of FEF25-75

• Not paid with Peak Flow Meters

«CODE:600D» Simple spirometry -- professional component $20.00 $20.00 D

a) Interpretation only.
b) There is a permanent record that includes a written interpretation by the physician or the study is not eligible for payment.

«CODE:601D» Simple spirometry -- technical component $11.25 $11.25

a) If instruments owned by physician and staff conducting the test are employed by the physician.

Repeat after bronchodilators

«CODE:602D» Simple spirometry, repeat after bronchodilators -- professional component $13.20 $13.20 D

«CODE:603D» Simple spirometry, repeat after bronchodilators -- technical component $5.60 $5.60

a) If instrument owned by physician and staff conducting the test are employed by the physician.

Full Spirometry

• FVC, FEV1, FEV1/FVC, FEF25-75, flow volume loop & may include volume time.

«CODE:~610D» Full spirometry -- professional component $29.70 $29.70 D

a) Interpretation only.
b) There is a permanent record that includes a written interpretation by the physician or the study is not eligible for payment.

«CODE:611D*» Full spirometry -- technical component $11.25 $11.25

a) If instrument owned by physician and staff conducting the test are employed by the physician.

Repeat after bronchodilators

«CODE:~612D» Full spirometry, repeat after bronchodilators -- professional component $12.20 $12.20 D

«CODE:613D*» Full spirometry, repeat after bronchodilators -- technical component $5.60 $5.60

a) If instruments owned by physician and staff conducting the test are employed by the physician.

@ Payment approved for general practitioners with training and expertise in spirometry as approved by the Saskatchewan Medical Association Tariff Committee. For the purposes of billing, 610D and 612D are billable on the date that the approval is granted to the physician. See "Services Billable by Entitlement".
* Technical components do not require entitlement. Physicians/staff should be prepared to provide to the Ministry documentation demonstrating their training, ownership of equipment or employment of staff on request only.

«CODE:272D» Hyperbaric medicine -interpretation of tissue oxygen concentrations /saturations to assess candidates for hyperbaric oxygen therapy $20.40 $20.40 D

«CODE:280D» Overnight oximetry (not payable with polysomnography) $30.00 $30.00 D

For billing of technical component see "Definitions" (19) and "Services Supervised by a Physician".

«CODE:400D» Airways resistance or conductance by body box -- professional component $13.00 $11.70 D

«CODE:401D» Airways resistance or conductance by body box -- technical component $20.40 $18.40 D

«CODE:402D» Maximum expiratory and inspiratory pressures—professional component $18.10 $16.30 D

«CODE:70D» Pulmonary compliance—professional component $31.80 $28.60 D

«CODE:71D» Static pressure volume curve with oesophageal balloon - pulmonary compliance -- professional component $44.90 $40.35 D

For billing of technical component see "Definitions" (19) and "Service Supervised by a Physician".

«CODE:77D» Histamine-Methacholine test -- professional component (internist or pediatrician ) $97.20  D

«CODE:276D» Histamine-Methacholine test -- technical component $21.70 $21.70 D

«CODE:277D» Pulse Oximetry with exercise -- professional component $15.10 $13.50 D

«L3:GI Tract»

«CODE:90D» Jejunal biopsy—trans oral $78.70 $70.85 D

«CODE:93D» Esophageal motility study -- interpretation only $52.60  D

«CODE:94D» Esophageal motility study -- physician in continuous attendance including interpretation $77.50  D

Extended pH studies with or without provocative drug testing

«CODE:95D» -- physician in attendance -- includes insertion and removal of probes and interpretation $81.20  D

«CODE:96D» -- interpretation only $41.80  D

«CODE:215D» Tension test $20.10 $20.10 D

«L3:Evoked response»

«CODE:105D» Visual evoked response -- interpretation $12.30 $12.30 D

«CODE:106D» Auditory evoked response -- interpretation $14.40 $14.40 D

«CODE:107D» Somato-sensory evoked response -- interpretation $14.40 $14.40 D

«L3:Peritoneal dialysis»

«CODE:121D» Peritoneal dialysis -- each 24-hour period $34.10 $30.70 0

«CODE:131D» Supervision of dialysis at home -- per week $52.20 $47.00

«CODE:132D» Any subsequent dialysis in the centre – each $38.70 $34.80 0

«CODE:320D» Slide Examination- nephrologist microscopic examination of urine sample in office $17.60  D

«CODE:122D» Hemodialysis -- initial $326.40 $293.75 0

«CODE:123D» Hemodialysis -- second to fifth -- each $184.80 $166.35 0

«CODE:124D» Hemodialysis -- sixth and subsequent -- each (shunt established) $52.20 $47.00 0

«CODE:128D» Dialysis and training in dialysis centre -- each $106.70 $96.00 0

«CODE:129D» Any subsequent dialysis in the centre -- each $38.70 $34.80 0

Peritoneal dialysis

«CODE:130D» Supervision of dialysis at home, per week $40.40 $36.50

«CODE:135D» Continuous Renal Replacement Therapy (CRRT) -- initial $473.30 $426.00 0

«CODE:136D» Continuous Renal Replacement Therapy (CRRT) -- subsequent - greater than 7 days by report $178.30 $160.50 0

«CODE:155D» Therapeutic Plasmapheresis (by cell separator) -- first $166.40 $149.75 0

«CODE:156D» Therapeutic Plasmapheresis (by cell separator) -- second to fifth $111.30 $100.15 0

«CODE:157D» Therapeutic Plasmapheresis (by cell separator) -- subsequent $78.70 $70.85 0

«CODE:250D» Plethysmography for penile blood flow $25.40 $22.85 D

«CODE:251D» Tumescence monitoring of penis $24.00 $21.60 D

«CODE:270D» Impedance plethysmography for deep vein thrombosis -- professional component only $11.60 $11.60 D

«L3:Endocrine Testing»

«CODE:200D» Cortrosyn stimulation $45.10 $40.55 D

«CODE:201D» Calcium pentagastrin stimulation $45.10 $40.60 D

«CODE:202D» TRH stimulation $63.20 $56.90 D

«CODE:203D» Glucagon test $136.20 $122.55 D

«CODE:204D» LHRH Stimulation $58.60 $52.80 D

«CODE:206D» Insulin tolerance test $110.10 $99.10 D

«CODE:207D» Triple bolus test $120.30 $108.30 D

«CODE:216D» Corticotropin Releasing Hormone Delineation Test $66.70 $60.00 D

«CODE:217D» Water Deprivation Test with or without DDAVP $143.70 $129.40 D

«L3:Pacemaker Clinic Services»

1. Clinic supervision, review of interrogation record and adjustment if necessary.

2. Includes ECG Interpretation; not paid in addition to 120L to 122L & 622L.

«CODE:278D» Patient -- not seen $28.50 $25.70

«CODE:279D» Patient -- seen $41.80 $37.60 0

«L3:Polysomnography»

Codes 281D to 291D are limited to physicians with Saskatchewan Health Authority sleep lab privileges.

Diagnostic Polysomnography is an insured service when provided at a provincially designated sleep laboratory and is a supervised overnight sleep study with continuous monitoring of sleep (EEG, EOG, EMG), oxygen saturation, ECG, airflow and respiratory effort.

Therapeutic Polysomnography is a supervised overnight sleep study performed in a provincially designated sleep laboratory with continuous monitoring of: sleep (EEG, EOG, EMG), oxygen saturation, ECG, airflow, and respiratory effort during which specific therapy for sleep disordered breathing is administered (this may include CPAP/Bi-PAP or mandibular advancement device) and the effect monitored.

Split night diagnostic and therapeutic polysomnography provided as a one-night study should be billed as 281D and 282D.

Repeat Diagnostic or Therapeutic polysomnography within 42 days must be accompanied by an explanation.

For billing of technical component see "Definitions" (19) and "Services Supervised by a Physician".

«CODE:281D» Diagnostic (includes visit) $298.30 $268.40 D

«CODE:282D» Therapeutic (includes visit) $148.10 $133.25 D

«CODE:283D» Multiple Sleep Latency Testing (includes visit) $148.10 $133.25 D

«CODE:284D» Portable sleep study $55.70 $50.20 D

«CODE:285D» Actigraphy $59.40 $53.45 D

«CODE:290D» Auto-CPAP Titration—professional $93.50 $84.15 D

«CODE:291D» Auto-CPAP Titration—technical $17.00 $15.30 D

«CODE:350D» Follow-up of Transplant Patient – heart, lung, liver, pancreas (for kidney transplant follow-up – use 308R) $273.40 $246.05

a) Is payable for a visit to provide assessment and ongoing management of a patient's condition following a heart, lung, liver or pancreas transplant.
b) This service is payable to the physician designated as the most responsible physician for monitoring the post-transplant status of the patient.
c) Not payable in addition to other visit services or within 42 days of the previous 350D.
d) Limited to six 350D services per patient per year (beginning April 1 of each year).

«L1:SECTION E – Psychiatry»

«L2:Visits»

«CODE:5E*» Initial assessment -- of a specific condition includes: $221.50 $177.15

a) pertinent family history;
b) patient history;
c) history of presenting complaint;
d) functional enquiry;
e) examination of affected part(s) and system(s);
f) diagnosis;
g) assessment;
h) necessary treatment;
i) advice to the patient; and
j) record of service provided.

«CODE:7E*» Follow-up assessment -- includes: $74.80 $62.80

a) history review;
b) functional enquiry;
c) examination;
d) reassessment;
e) necessary treatment;
f) advice to the patient; and
g) record of service provided.

Consultations (8E, 9E, 10E, 11E, 12E, 13E) -- include:

a) all visits necessary;
b) history and examination;
c) review of laboratory and/or other data;
d) written submission of the consultant's opinion, and;
e) recommendations to the referring doctor.

Per "Documentation Requirements for the Purposes of Billing", all time-based codes must have the start and stop times documented in the medical record. For the purposes of this requirement, 8E and 11E are not considered time-based codes. When the consultation criteria is not met, physician is to bill appropriate assessment code.

«CODE:8E*» Minor Consultation (Adult or child) - When consultation involves less than 30 minutes of direct in-person patient care. For consultations involving 30 minutes or more of direct patient care, physician is to bill appropriate consultation code 9E or 10E. $185.10

«CODE:9E*» Adult consultation – Minimum of 30 minutes of direct in-person patient care $339.60

«CODE:10E*» Child Consultation – 17 years of age and under - Minimum of 30 minutes of direct in-person patient care $373.25

«CODE:11E*» Repeat Consultation $148.80

A formal consultation for the same or related condition repeated within 90 days by the same physician. Repeat consultation is only to be billed when it is generated by a new formal request by the referring physician. It should not be used for routine follow-up of the patient for which service code 7E "follow-up assessment" is appropriate.

«CODE:12E*» Extended adult consultation -- add on to 9E, max 8 units
a) payable when consultation (9E) exceeds 55 minutes of direct in-person patient care;
b) each complete 15-minute period or major portion thereof of direct in-person patient care; and,
c) per "Documentation Requirements for the Purposes of Billing", all time-based codes must have the start and stop times documented in the medical record. $92.05

«CODE:13E*» Extended child consultation -- add on to 10E, max 8 units
a) payable when consultation (10E) exceeds 55 minutes of direct in-person patient care;
b) each complete 15-minute period or major portion thereof of direct in-person patient care; and,
c) per "Documentation Requirements for the Purposes of Billing", all time-based codes must have the start and stop times documented in the medical record. $101.25

* Payment for patients 0-5 years of age and patients 65 years of age and older are automatically applied.

«L2:Hospital Care - Payable on day of admission»

Hospital care is billable by the physician responsible for inpatient care of patients admitted to hospital. Hospital care includes all of the routine services required to manage in hospital care. Additional services provided as a result of an acute episode may be payable with an explanation.

Post-operative hospital care is included in the surgical fee and can only be paid if hospital care is provided by another physician for a condition unrelated to the surgery. Upon transfer of hospital care to another physician, billing of hospital care should be as if there was a continuation of care under the same physician. An assessment or consultation may not be billed when hospital care is transferred to another physician.

Hospital care may be billed for short term acute care patients who are admitted to a health centre in the same manner as an acute care hospital. Physicians may not use hospital care to cover in-hospital patients who are designated as long-term care. These patients are to be billed under codes 627A-629A – Special Care Home Management

«CODE:25E» -- 1-10 days -- per day -- bill units (max 10) $43.20 $43.20

«CODE:26E» -- 11-20 days -- per day -- bill units (max 10) $42.85 $42.85

«CODE:27E» -- 21-30 days -- per day -- bill units (max 10) $37.85 $37.85

«CODE:28E» -- 31 days and thereafter -- per day -- bill units (max 99) $37.50 $37.50

«L1:S E C T I O N  E – Psychiatry»

«L2:Psychiatric Social Interview»

1. Interview for a minimum of 15 minutes by a psychiatrist with a person who has close 
knowledge of, or association with, a patient under the care of or treatment by the 
psychiatrist, and without the patient being present, to assist in the treatment of the 
patient.   

2. A person being interviewed may be a spouse or another member of the family, for 
example, a community psychiatric nurse (psychiatric home care nurse), a teacher, or a 
member of the clergy or a social worker. 

3. The benefit payment for this service is for a structured interview on a one-to-one basis 
between the psychiatrist and the person being interviewed.  

4. This item is not paid for a case conference.   

5. Service code 31E should be billed in the name of the patient, and indicate the person 
interviewed.    

6. Per "Documentation Requirements for the Purposes of Billing", all time-based codes 
must have the start and stop times documented in the medical record. 

«CODE:31E» Psychiatric social interview  
a) each complete 15-minute period 
b) maximum of three units of 31E per person interviewed – bill units 
$81.30 
$73.20 

«L2:Case Conference»

Is where a psychiatrist confers, in relation to several patients at once, with a physician, 
nurse or some other professional person participating in the provision of services to the 
patient(s) or in the supervision or monitoring of the patient(s). 
a) Must be a formal scheduled session.   
b) A single conference fee billed in the name of one patient covers all the patients 
reviewed at the conference.   
c) A maximum of six (6) case conferences per patient per year is billable 
d) The physician should keep appropriate documentation of the start and stop 
times, and place. 

«CODE:142E» Case conference -- per conference (not patient) -- first 30 minutes or part thereof 
$131.90 
$105.45 
«CODE:144E» Case conference -- add to 142E for each additional 15 minutes or part thereof – bill units 
$65.95 
$52.60 

«L2:Certification»

«CODE:62E» Examination and certification of need for psychiatric examination pursuant to The 
Mental Health Services Act  
a) with completion of Form A 
$128.30 

See 63B 

«CODE:63E» Consultation, examination, patient history, admission to hospital and  
certification of mental ill health  
a) with completion of Form G 
$323.95 
$284.50** 

«CODE:64E» Consultation, examination and certification of mental ill health  
a) with completion of Form G  
b) second psychiatrist 
$294.50 
$258.60** 

«CODE:66E» Repeat examination and recertification of mental ill health  
a) same psychiatrist as billed code 63E  
b) within 22 days  
c) with completion of Form G 
$129.55 
$113.80** 

«CODE:67E» Repeat examination and recertification of mental ill health 
a) same psychiatrist as billed code 64E  
b) within 22 days  
c) with completion of Form G 
$129.55 
$116.60** 

«CODE:68E» Consultation, examination and recertification of mental ill health when  
previous certifying psychiatrist is unavailable  
a) includes completion of Form G 
$294.50 
$265.15** 

«CODE:70E» Completion of certification of mental ill health  
a) with issuance of Form G, H.1, H.3 or H.4. 
$51.95 
$45.60** 

«CODE:73E» Necessary examination and certification for ECT on an involuntary patient  
a) by the psychiatrist providing primary care who has billed under code 63E  
b) with completion of Form I 
$51.95 
$45.60** 

«CODE:74E» Examination and certification for ECT on an involuntary patient  
a) by second psychiatrist who billed 64E or who has prior knowledge of the case  
b) with completion of Form I 
$51.95 
$46.75** 

«CODE:75E» Consultation, examination and certification for ECT on an involuntary patient who has 
not been seen by the psychiatrist in the preceding 42 days  
a) with completion of Form I 
$287.20 
$258.55** 

** 
Payment to eligible General Practitioners as approved by the 
Saskatchewan Health Authority (SHA) 

«L2:Psychotherapy»

Psychotherapy is the informed and intentional application of clinical methods and 
interpersonal stances derived from established psychological principles by means of a 
professional relationship between a psychiatrist and a patient.  Psychotherapy 
services include direct contact with a patient for the purpose of evaluation, diagnosis, 
physical and/or drug treatment, and/or the delivery of therapies sanctioned by the 
Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons. All services provided must be documented 
in the patient's health record. 

«L3:Group Psychotherapy -- group size 7 to 9 persons»

Per "Documentation Requirements for the Purposes of Billing", all time-based codes 
must have the start and stop times documented in the medical record. 

«CODE:33E» Group Psychotherapy, first hour, per person 
$49.75 
$44.65@ 
«CODE:34E» Group Psychotherapy, each subsequent 30 minutes or major part thereof, per person, 
bill units 
$24.85 
$22.40@ 

A maximum of 2 hours applies to a combination of 33E and 34E. 

«L3:Family Psychotherapy»

1. Billed in the name of the primary patient, indicating names of other members 
treated. 

2. A session where concurrent psychotherapy is conducted with a patient and a 
family member(s), romantic partner, or caregiver 

3. Each session is billable to a maximum of 2 hours per day by the same physician, 
or same specialty and clinic. 

4. Per "Documentation Requirements for the Purposes of Billing", all time-based 
codes must have the start and stop times documented in the medical record. 

«CODE:35E» -- minimum period of 30 minutes 
$195.20 
$171.30@ 
«CODE:37E» -- each subsequent 15 minutes or major part thereof – bill units 
$97.60 
$85.70@ 

«L3:Individual Psychotherapy»

1. Payment for this service implies a planned series of sessions of at least 30 
minutes duration. 

2. Individual psychotherapy and psychiatric care cannot be claimed for the same 
patient on the same day by the same physician 

3. Cannot be billed on more than one patient during the same time-period. 

4. Per "Documentation Requirements for the Purposes of Billing", all time-based 
codes must have the start and stop times documented in the medical record. 

«CODE:38E» -- minimum period of 30 minutes 
$162.65 
$142.80@ 
«CODE:39E» -- each subsequent 15 minutes or major part thereof – bill units 
$81.30 
$71.40@ 

@ 
Payment to General Practitioners and other physicians with training in 
psychotherapy with approval from the Saskatchewan Medical Association.  For the 
purposes of billing, 35E-39E is billable on the date that the approval is granted to 
the physician.  See "Services Billable by Entitlement". 

«CODE:~42E» Electroshock therapy -- per treatment -- with anesthetist  
$128.30 
$128.30
0 
L 

«CODE:43E» Repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS) -- technical component 
-- if the equipment is owned and the staff are employed by the physician.  
For billing of technical component see "Definitions" (19) and "Services 
Supervised by a Physician". 
$82.60 
$74.30 
D 

Repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS) – professional 
component - for patient assessment use 7E visit code (for physician 
bedside attendance during procedure use 918A) 

«CODE:~51E» Psychological testing -- complex  
$72.35 
$63.60
D 

Complex psychological testing applies to the following tests:  
a) Achenbach Child Behavior Checklist (teacher's, parent's)  
b) ADI-R Autism Diagnostic Inventory  
c) ADOS Autism Diagnostic Observation Scale  
d) BASC Behavioral Assessment Scale for Children  
e) Continuous Performance Test  
f) 
Crowell Structured assessment  
g) Goodenough Draw a Person Test (IQ)  
h) KiddieSADS  
i) 
Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory (MMPI)  
j) 
Psychiatric 
Assessment 
Initial 
Questionnaire, 
University 
of 
Saskatchewan/Saskatchewan Health Authority or Maternal Mental 
Health 
Initial 
Questionnaire, 
University 
of 
Saskatchewan/Saskatchewan Health Authority 
k) PANSS etc, (for Schizophrenia)  
l) 
Structured Clinical Interview for DSM IV Axis I (SCID I)  
m) Structured Clinical Interview for DSM IV Axis II (SCID II) 
n) Wisconsin Card Sorting Test 

Physicians wishing to add tests to the above list should write to the 
Saskatchewan Medical Association Tariff Committee for approval. 

# 
Payment approved for a physician who has been designated by the 
College of Physicians and Surgeons of Saskatchewan. 

«L2:Psychiatric Care – Admitted patient to a hospital or health care centre»

Psychiatric Care is defined as a single medical intervention or a series of medical 
interventions carried out by a psychiatrist involving an interview with a patient in a 
hospital setting and utilizing verbal and pharmacological therapies. 

Psychiatric Care for patients admitted to a hospital or health care centre may entail a 
medical diagnostic and therapeutic evaluation and may involve changes in treatment 
regimens. 

At least 15 minutes of time must be spent with the patient and consist of at least 3 of 
the following components.  If less than 3 components are performed and documented 
and/or less than 15 minutes of time is spent, then the appropriate service code is 
hospital care (25E-28E): 

a) History review; 
b) Diagnostic evaluation; 
c) Therapeutic evaluation; 
d) Changes in therapy; 
e) Psychiatric Counselling 
f) 
Pertinent positives and/or changes in mental status; 
g) Assessment and diagnosis; and/or 
h) Advice to patient. 

Time-of-day premiums and surcharges/special calls are not eligible for payment when 
100E and 101E are billed for routine daily inpatient rounds.  If the service is not being 
billed for daily inpatient rounds, a satisfactory explanation must be submitted with the 
electronic claim for consideration of payment.   

The record must include any of the above components that were performed including 
the start and stop times. As per "Documentation Requirements for the Purposes of 
Billing". 

Individual psychotherapy and psychiatric care cannot be claimed for the same patient 
on the same day by the same physician. 

Total eligible billing is 2 hours per patient per day. 

«CODE:~100E» --  minimum of 15 minutes 
$73.90 
$64.90
«CODE:~101E» -- each subsequent 15 minutes or major part thereof to a maximum of 7, bill units 
$73.90 
$64.90

# 
Payment approved for a physician who has been designated by the College of 
Physicians and Surgeons of Saskatchewan.  For the purposes of billing, 100E, 
101E, 110E and 111E are billable on the date that the approval is granted to the 
physician.  See "Services Billable by Entitlement". 

«L2:Psychiatric Care – Patient not admitted to a hospital or health care centre»

Psychiatric Care is defined as a single medical intervention or a series of medical 
interventions carried out by a psychiatrist involving an interview with a patient in a 
non-hospital setting and utilizing verbal and pharmacological therapies. 

Psychiatric Care entails a medical diagnostic and therapeutic evaluation and may 
involve changes in treatment regimens consisting of the following components: 

a) History review; 
b) Diagnostic evaluation; 
c) Therapeutic evaluation; 
d) Changes in therapy;  
e) Psychiatric Counselling 
f) 
Pertinent positives and/or changes in mental status; 
g) Assessment and diagnosis; and 
h) Advice to patient. 

The record must include any of the above components that were performed including 
the start and stop times. As per "Documentation Requirements for the Purposes of 
Billing". 

Individual psychotherapy and psychiatric care cannot be claimed for the same patient 
on the same day by the same physician. 

Total eligible billing is 1.5 hours per patient per day. 

«CODE:~110E» --  minimum of 15 minutes 
$81.30 
$71.40
«CODE:~111E» -- each subsequent 15 minutes or major part thereof to a maximum of 5, bill units 
$81.30 
$71.40

# 
Payment approved for a physician who has been designated by the College of 
Physicians and Surgeons of Saskatchewan.  For the purposes of billing, 100E, 
101E, 110E and 111E are billable on the date that the approval is granted to the 
physician.  See "Services Billable by Entitlement". 

«L2:Virtual Care Services»

Please see Virtual Care preamble in the introductory section of the Payment Schedule for 
more information. 

«CODE:807E» Virtual follow-up assessment provided via telephone or secure videoconference-- includes: 
$67.30 
$56.50 

a) history review; 
d) reassessment;  

b) history of presenting complaint; 
e) necessary treatment; and  

c) functional enquiry; 
f) record of service provided. 

Virtual consultation provided via telephone or secure videoconference-- includes: 

a) all visits necessary;  
b) history; 
c) review of laboratory and/or other data; 
d) written submission of the consultant's opinion; and 
e) recommendations to the referring doctor. 

«CODE:809E» Adult virtual consultation provided via telephone or secure videoconference 
$305.65 

«CODE:810E» Child virtual consultation provided via telephone or secure videoconference – 17 years of 
age and under  
$335.90 

«CODE:811E» Repeat virtual consultation provided via telephone or secure videoconference: 
$133.95 

A formal virtual consultation for the same or related condition repeated within 90 days by 
the same physician. Repeat virtual consultation is only to be billed when it is generated by a 
new formal request by the referring physician. It should not be used for routine virtual 
follow-up of the patient for which service code '807E' "Virtual follow-up assessment" is 
appropriate. 

«L3:Virtual Psychiatric Social Interview»

1. Interview for a minimum of 15 minutes by a psychiatrist with a person who has close 
knowledge of, or association with, a patient under the care of or treatment by the 
psychiatrist, and without the patient being present, to assist in the treatment of the 
patient.  

2. A person being interviewed may be a spouse or another member of the family, for 
example, a community psychiatric nurse (psychiatric home care nurse), a teacher, or a 
member of the clergy or a social worker.  

3. The benefit payment for this service is for a structured interview on a one-to-one basis 
between the psychiatrist and the person being interviewed via telephone or secure 
videoconference.  

4. This service is not payable for a case conference.  

5. Service code 831E should be billed in the name of the patient, and indicate the person 
interviewed.  

6. Per "Documentation Requirements for the Purposes of Billing", all time-based codes must 
have the start and stop times documented in the medical record.  

«CODE:831E» Virtual psychiatric social interview provided via telephone or secure videoconference  
$73.20 
$65.85 

a)  each complete 15-minute period 

b)  maximum of 3 units of 831E per person interviewed – bill units  

«L2:Virtual Psychotherapy»

Psychotherapy is a form of treatment for mental illness, behavioral maladaptions 
and/or other problems in which a physician establishes a professional relationship 
with a patient for the purposes of removing, modifying or retarding existing symptoms 
or attenuating or reversing disturbed patterns of behavior, by one or more approaches 
or methods from the generally recognized divisions of psychology (i.e. analytic, 
behavioristic, gestalt, hormic, introspective). It is recognized that techniques may 
include hypnosis.  

«L3:Virtual Family Psychotherapy»

1. Billed in the name of head of family, indicating names of other members treated. 

2. Concurrent treatment of two or more members. 

3. Per "Documentation Requirements for the Purposes of Billing", all time-based 
codes must have the start and stop times documented in the medical record.  

«CODE:835E» -- first 45 minutes provided via telephone or secure videoconference 
$175.70 
$154.25@ 
«CODE:837E» -- each subsequent 15 minutes or major portion thereof provided via telephone or 
secure videoconference – bill units  
$87.85 
$77.15@ 

«L3:Virtual Individual Psychotherapy or Psychiatric Counselling»

1. Payment for this service implies a planned series of at least 30 minutes duration  

2. Per "Documentation Requirements for the Purposes of Billing", all time-based 
codes must have the start and stop times documented in the medical record.  

«CODE:838E» -- minimum period of 30 minutes provided via telephone or secure videoconference 
$146.40 
$128.55@ 
«CODE:839E» -- each subsequent 15 minutes or major portion thereof provided via telephone or 
secure videoconference 
$73.20 
$64.30@ 

@
  
Payment to General Practitioners and other physicians with training in 
psychotherapy with approval from the Saskatchewan Medical Association. For the 
purposes of billing, 835E-839E is billable on the date that the approval is granted to 
the physician. See "Services Billable by Entitlement". 

«L2:Virtual Psychiatric Care – Admitted patient to a hospital or health care centre»

Virtual Psychiatric Care is defined as a single medical intervention or a series of medical 
interventions carried out by a psychiatrist involving an interview via telephone or secure 
video conference with a patient in a hospital setting and utilizing verbal and 
pharmacological therapies  

Psychiatric Care for patients admitted to a hospital or health care centre may entail a 
medical diagnostic and therapeutic evaluation and may involve changes in treatment 
regimens.  

At least 15 minutes of time must be spent with the patient and consist of at least 3 of 
the following components:  

a) history review; 

b) diagnostic evaluation;  

c) therapeutic evaluation;  

d) changes in therapy;  

e) pertinent positives and/or changes in mental status;  

f) assessment and diagnosis, and/or 

g) advice to patient.  

The record must include any of the above components that were performed including 
the start and stop times, as per "Documentation Requirements for the Purposes of 
Billing". 

Total eligible billing is 2 hours per patient per day.  

«CODE:~700E» -- minimum of 15 minutes provided via telephone or secure videoconference 
$66.50 
$58.40
«CODE:~701E» - each subsequent 15 minutes or major portion thereof provided via telephone or secure 
videoconference to a maximum of 7 -- bill units  
$66.50 
$58.40

#  Payment approved for a physician who has been designated by the College of 
Physicians and Surgeons of Saskatchewan. For the purposes of billing, 700E, 701E 
are billable on the date that the approval is granted to the physician. See "Services 
Billable by Entitlement". 

«L2:Virtual Psychiatric Care –Patient NOT admitted to a hospital or health care centre»

Virtual Psychiatric Care is defined as a single medical intervention or a series of medical 
interventions carried out by a psychiatrist involving an interview via telephone or secure 
video conference with a patient in a hospital setting and utilizing verbal and 
pharmacological therapies  

Psychiatric Care entails a medical diagnostic and therapeutic evaluation and may involve 
changes in treatment regimens consisting of the following components: 

a) history review; 

b) diagnostic evaluation;  

c) therapeutic evaluation;  

d) changes in therapy;  

e) pertinent positives and/or changes in mental status;  

f) assessment and diagnosis, and/or 

g) advice to patient.  

The record must include any of the above components that were performed including the 
start and stop times, as per "Documentation Requirements for the Purposes of Billing". 

Total eligible billing is 1.5 hours per patient per day.  

«CODE:~710E» -- minimum of 15 minutes provided via telephone or secure videoconference 
$73.20 
$64.30
«CODE:~711E» - each subsequent 15 minutes or major portion thereof provided via telephone or secure 
videoconference to a maximum of 7 -- bill units  
$73.20 
$64.30

#  Payment approved for a physician who has been designated by the College of 
Physicians and Surgeons of Saskatchewan. For the purposes of billing, 710E, 711E are 
billable on the date that the approval is granted to the physician. See "Services 
Billable by Entitlement".

«L1:S E C T I O N  F – Dermatology»

«L2:Visits»

«CODE:5F*» Initial assessment -- of a specific condition includes:  
a) pertinent family history; 
b) patient history; 
c) history of presenting complaint; 
d) functional enquiry; 
e) examination of all parts and systems; 
f) diagnosis; 
g) assessment; 
h) necessary treatment; 
i) advice to the patient; and, 
j) record of service provided.

«CODE:7F*» Follow-up assessment -- includes:  
a) history review; 
b) history of presenting complaint; 
c) functional enquiry; 
d) examination of affected part(s) or system(s); 
e) diagnosis; 
f) assessment; 
g) necessary treatment; 
h) advice to the patient; and, 
i) record of service provided.

«CODE:9F*» Consultation – includes: 
a) all visits necessary; 
b) history and examination; 
c) review of laboratory and/or other data;  
d) written submission of the consultant's opinion; and, 
e) recommendations to the referring doctor.

«CODE:11F*» Repeat Consultation 
A formal consultation for the same or related condition repeated within 90 days by the same physician.  Repeat consultation is only to be billed when it is generated by a new formal request by the referring physician. It should not be used for routine follow-up of the patient for which service code 7F "follow-up assessment" is appropriate.

*  Payment for patients 0-5 years of age and patients 65 years of age and older are automatically applied.

«CODE:14F*» Complex partial assessment or subsequent visit 
For the ongoing management of any of the diseases listed below where the complexity of the condition requires the continuing management by a dermatology specialist, for patient visits that involve at least 15 minutes physician time, includes:  

a) history review; 
b) history of presenting complaint; 
c) functional enquiry; 
d) examination of affected part(s) or system(s); 
e) diagnosis;  
f) assessment; 
g) necessary treatment; 
h) advice to the patient; and, 
i) record of service provided.

Limited to 6 per patient, per physician, per 12-month period. Services in excess of this limit will be adjusted to a lesser assessment fee (7F).

Per "Documentation Requirements for the Purposes of Billing", all time-based codes must have the start and stop times documented in the medical record.

Eligible conditions:  
Complex systemic disease with skin manifestations for at least one (1)  of the following: 
• Sarcoidosis; 
• Systemic lupus erythematosis; 
• Dermatomyositis; 
• Scleroderma; 
• Relapsing polychondritis; 
• Inflammatory bowel diseases (pyoderma gangranosum, Sweet's syndrome, erythema nodosum); 
• Porphyria; 
• Autoimmune blistering diseases (pemphigus, pempihoid, linear IgA); 
• Paraneoplastic syndrome involving skin; 
• Vasculitis (including Behcet's disease); or 
• Cutaneous lymphomas (including lymphomatoid papulosis).

OR

Chronic pruritus with or without skin manifestations (prurigo nodularis).

OR

Complex systemic drug reactions for at least one (1) of the following: 
• Drug hypersensitivity syndrome; 
• Erythema multiforme major; or 
• Toxic epidermal necrolysis.

OR

Complex psoriasis or complex dermatogitis as defined by at least one (1) of the following conditions: 
• Involvement of body surface area of greater than 30%; or 
• Treatment with systemic therapy (methotrexate, acitretin, cyclosporine, biologics).

*  Payment for patients 0-5 years of age and patients 65 years of age and older are automatically applied.

«L2:Hospital Care – Payable on day of admission»

Hospital care is billable by the physician responsible for inpatient care of patients admitted to hospital. Hospital care includes all of the routine services required to manage in hospital care. Additional services provided as a result of an acute episode may be payable with an explanation.

Post-operative hospital care is included in the surgical fee and can only be paid if hospital care is provided by another physician for a condition unrelated to the surgery. Upon transfer of hospital care to another physician, billing of hospital care should be as if there was a continuation of care under the same physician. An assessment or consultation may not be billed when hospital care is transferred to another physician.

Hospital care may be billed for short term acute care patients who are admitted to a health centre in the same manner as an acute care hospital.  Physicians may not use hospital care to cover in-hospital patients who are designated as long-term care. These patients are to be billed under codes 627A-629A – Special Care Home Management.

«CODE:25F» -- 1-10 days -- per day -- bill units (max 10)    $32.00    $32.00
«CODE:26F» -- 11-20 days -- per day -- bill units (max 10)    $31.00    $31.00
«CODE:27F» -- 21-30 days -- per day -- bill units (max 10)    $30.00    $30.00
«CODE:28F» -- 31 days and thereafter -- per day -- bill units (max 99)    $30.00    $30.00

«L2:Virtual Care Services»

Please see Virtual Care preamble in the introductory section of the Payment Schedule for more information.

«CODE:807F» Virtual follow-up assessment provided via telephone or secure videoconference-- includes:    $38.20    $36.75
a) history review; 
b) history of presenting complaint; 
c) functional enquiry; 
d) assessment;  
e) diagnosis;  
f) necessary treatment;  
g) advice to the patient; and  
h) record of service provided.

«CODE:809F» Virtual consultation provided via telephone or secure videoconference-- includes:    $85.50
a) all visits necessary;  
b) history; 
c) review of laboratory and/or other data; 
d) written submission of the consultant's opinion; and 
e) recommendations to the referring doctor.

«CODE:811F» Repeat virtual consultation provided via telephone or secure videoconference:    $47.45
A formal virtual consultation for the same or related condition repeated within 90 days by the same physician. Repeat virtual consultation is only to be billed when it is generated by a new formal request by the referring physician. It should not be used for routine virtual follow-up of the patient for which service code '807F' "Virtual follow-up assessment" is appropriate.

BLANK PAGE INTENTIONAL

«L2:Procedures:»

Additional payments for diagnostic service excluding ECGs, 0, 10 or 42 day operative procedures performed on patients under one (1) year of age are automatically calculated and paid as explained in Section A.

«CODE:30F» Ultraviolet A and B light sensitivity -- testing and interpretation    $72.90    $72.90    D
«CODE:33F» Radiotherapy – per body area    $25.30    $25.30    0
«CODE:34F» PUVA (Psoralen ultraviolet) therapy -- one treatment per alternate day    $47.80    $47.80    0
«CODE:35F» Ultraviolet B Therapy    $15.80    $15.80    0

Visit service not paid same day as 34F or 35F unless an explanation satisfactory to the Ministry of Health is provided

«CODE:38F» Application of nitrogen mustard -- per treatment    $40.20    $40.20    0
«CODE:40F» Special mycological investigations -- direct examination of hair or scales    $11.40    $11.40    D
«CODE:42F» Wood's light examination    $8.50    $8.50    D

«L3:Biopsy of skin or mucous membrane»

«CODE:100F» Punch or shave biopsy -- 1st biopsy    $34.00    $34.00    D
«CODE:101F» Punch or shave biopsy -- each additional biopsy (maximum of 4) – bill units    $20.00    $20.00    D
«CODE:102F» Marginal (incisional) biopsy of skin or mucosa -- 1st biopsy    $50.00    $50.00    0
«CODE:103F» Marginal (incisional) biopsy of skin or mucosa -- each additional biopsy (maximum of 4) – bill units    $26.00    $26.00    0

Only one of the codes below can be claimed per case (110F-112F)

«CODE:110F» Comedos, acne pustules, milia - drainage or removal -- 1 to 5    $12.15    $12.15    0
«CODE:111F» Comedos, acne pustules, milia - drainage or removal -- 6 to 14    $30.00    $30.00    0
«CODE:112F» Comedos, acne pustules, milia - drainage or removal -- 15 or more    $33.40    $33.40    0
«CODE:120F» Intralesional injections by dermojet or similar means    $12.35    $12.35    0

Note:  See Section N under the heading "Surgery of Appearance" (Other Body Areas), item (2) regarding injection of keloids.

Only one of the codes below can be claimed per case (121F, 122F)

«CODE:121F» Intralesional injections by needle -- up to 5 injections    $32.00    $32.00    0
«CODE:122F» Intralesional injections by needle -- 6 or more injections (maximum)    $45.00    $45.00    0
«CODE:888F» Treatment of localized cutaneous malignancy by curettage & cautery -- any area    $85.00    $85.00    42
«CODE:130F» Extra corporal photophoresis    $75.50    $75.50    0
«CODE:131F» Serum autologous skin test    $37.80    $37.80    D

BLANK PAGE INTENTIONAL

«L1:S E C T I O N  G – Medical Genetics *»

This Section is restricted to those physicians who have been designated by the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Saskatchewan as eligible to receive payment for these services.

«L2:Visits»

«CODE:5G*» Genetic assessment – includes:    $97.45    $87.65
a) history of the presenting condition; 
b) genetic history of the patient and of the family; 
c) diagnosis; 
d) necessary treatment; 
e) examination of the affected part(s) or system(s)including any special techniques; 
f) advice to the patient; and, 
g) record of service provided.

«CODE:7G*» Follow-up assessment -- All Follow-ups, if a Visit -- Not Counselling -- may include:    $65.80    $59.30
a) a review and update of the recorded genetic history; 
b) necessary  examination; 
c) review of diagnostic findings; 
d) necessary treatment;  
e) advice to the patient; and  
f) record of service provided.  

«CODE:9G*» Consultation – includes:     $188.60
a) all visits necessary; 
b) history and examination; 
c) review of the laboratory and/or other data;  
d) written submission of the consultant's opinion; and, 
e) recommendations to the referring doctor.

«CODE:11G*» Repeat Consultation    $90.85
A formal consultation for the same or related condition repeated within 90 days by the same physician.  Repeat consultation is only to be billed when it is generated by a new formal request by the referring physician. It should not be used for routine follow-up of the patient for which service code 7G "follow-up assessment" is appropriate.

*  Payment for patients 0-5 years of age and patients 65 years of age and older are automatically applied.

«CODE:13G» Review of genetic information     $56.60    $56.60
a) Review of clinical information for patients seen exclusively by a genetic counsellor for the medical geneticist.  
b) Dictated letter generated from the visit must indicate medical geneticist involvement.  
c) Patient chart must include note that clinical information was reviewed by medical geneticist.  
d) Not payable if patient seen by geneticist within 30 days.

«L2:Hospital Care – Payable on day of admission»

Hospital care is billable by the physician responsible for inpatient care of patients admitted to hospital. Hospital care includes all of the routine services required to manage in hospital care. Additional services provided as a result of an acute episode may be payable with an explanation.

Post-operative hospital care is included in the surgical fee and can only be paid if hospital care is provided by another physician for a condition unrelated to the surgery. Upon transfer of hospital care to another physician, billing of hospital care should be as if there was a continuation of care under the same physician. An assessment or consultation may not be billed when hospital care is transferred to another physician.

Hospital care may be billed for short term acute care patients who are admitted to a health centre in the same manner as an acute care hospital.  Physicians may not use hospital care to cover in-hospital patients who are designated as long-term care. These patients are to be billed under codes 627A-629A – Special Care Home Management.

«CODE:25G» -- 1-10 days -- per day -- bill units (max 10)    $34.40    $34.40
«CODE:26G» -- 11-20 days -- per day -- bill units (max 10)    $34.40    $34.40
«CODE:27G» -- 21-30 days -- per day -- bill units (max 10)    $33.30    $33.30
«CODE:28G» -- 31 days and thereafter -- per day -- bill units (max 99)    $33.30    $33.30

«L2:VIRTUAL CARE SERVICES»

Please see Virtual Care preamble in the introductory section of the Payment Schedule for more information.

«CODE:807G» Virtual follow-up assessment provided via telephone or secure videoconference-- includes:    $53.40    $48.05
a) a review and update of the recorded genetic history;  
b) review of diagnostic findings;  
c) necessary treatment; 
d) advice to the patient; and 
e) record of service provided.  

«CODE:809G» Virtual consultation provided via telephone or secure videoconference-- includes:    $153.00
a) all visits necessary;  
b) history; 
c) review of laboratory and/or other data; 
d) written submission of the consultant's opinion; and 
e) recommendations to the referring doctor.

«CODE:811G» Repeat virtual consultation provided via telephone or secure videoconference:    $73.70
A formal virtual consultation for the same or related condition repeated within 90 days by the same physician. Repeat virtual consultation is only to be billed when it is generated by a new formal request by the referring physician. It should not be used for routine virtual follow-up of the patient for which service code '807F' "Virtual follow-up assessment" is appropriate.

«L2:Procedures»

Additional payments for diagnostic service excluding ECGs, 0, 10 or 42 day operative procedures performed on patients under one (1) year of age are automatically calculated and paid as explained in Section A

This Section is restricted to those physicians who have been designated by the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Saskatchewan as eligible to receive payment for these services.

«L3:Genetic Interview or Counselling»

Billed in the name of the patient and indicating person interviewed and  relationship to the patient.

«CODE:31G» Interview with other than the patient to complete the genetic history    $33.70    $30.30

«L3:Counselling -- individual or family»
Per "Documentation Requirements for the Purposes of Billing", all time-based codes must have the start and stop times documented in the medical record.

«CODE:38G*» Counselling -- minimum period of 30 minutes    $86.20    $77.50
«CODE:39G*» Counselling -- each additional 15 minutes or part thereof -- bill units    $42.95    $38.75

*  Payment for patients 0-5 years of age and patients 65 years of age and older are automatically applied.  See SECTION A for details.

«CODE:40G» Chromosome analysis -- interpretation only    $80.10    $80.10    D

«CODE:50G» Genetic examination of the products of conception (fetus and/or placenta) following intrauterine fetal death or pregnancy termination for multiple congenital anomalies – only payable to physicians with appropriate genetic training.     $188.60        0

BLANK PAGE INTENTIONAL

«L1:SECTION H – Anesthesia»

1. Payment for anesthesia is for professional services for the administration of any type of anesthesia, general, regional, sedation or monitored Anesthesia care in accordance with the Canadian Society of Anesthesiologist's Guidelines to the Practice of Anesthesia. However, ring block, local infiltration and topical or spray Anesthetic will not be paid unless they meet the full definition of anesthetic professional services as noted above. Payment for anesthesia includes same day pre-anesthetic as well as post-anesthetic examinations and all supportive measures during anesthesia but does not include the cost of drugs, materials or facilities.

2. An anesthetic payment for a beneficiary:

a) is based on the time from the start of continuous attendance by the anesthetist until such time as the attendance by the anesthetist to that patient is no longer required. The anesthetic fee codes implying continuous attendance may only be billed for one patient at a time.

b) includes a procedure carried out during administration of the anesthetic or in the resuscitative period except that invasive monitoring will be approved to the primary anesthetist in addition to the anesthetic as follows:

- 687H, 134A, 135A, 136A, 316A, 140A or 141A at 100% of the appropriate listed amount;
- 160L at 75% of the appropriate listed amount.

3. When more than one procedure is performed during the same anesthetic, the payment to the anesthetist shall be based on the highest anesthetic complexity as noted in the section heading 'Anesthesia Categories by Surgical Procedure'.

4. Pre-anesthetic consultation on same day of surgery is approved for high-risk cases by report.

Payment for a pre-anesthetic consultation is intended to apply where the consultation is provided in potentially high-risk situations to assess the fitness of the patient for the anesthetic/surgical procedure and to advice on pre-anesthetic treatment. It is expected that these consultations will apply predominantly to risk levels IV and V and are not intended to apply to a pre-anesthetic assessment situation.

5. When a physician admits a patient to hospital for urgent surgery on an emergency basis and later on the same day provides anesthesia services for the surgeon to whom the case has been referred, then both the visit and anesthesia services will be paid.

6. In special cases where the safety of the patient or the facilitation of the operation requires the services of a second anesthetist, payment to the assisting anesthetist will be based on 100% of the listed rate of payment in the same anesthetic category as the principle anesthetist for the calculated anesthetic time according to the appropriate time units of 15 minutes.

7. "Anesthetic Standby" is defined as professional services provided for a patient at the request of another physician during a procedure which normally would not require the presence of an anesthetist. The need for anesthetic standby should be justified by high risk or complexity of the procedure. Anesthetic standby services should be billed under Code 918A following the reporting criteria.

"Standby" followed by administration of anesthesia must be clarified, i.e. the commencement and termination time for each service, an explanation for the necessity for "standby" with an outline of the services provided and the name of the physician who requested the "standby".

8. If an anesthetic is provided for both dental and other surgery, the most favourable single base code is paid with the remainder paid as time units.

9. Per "Documentation Requirements for the Purposes of Billing", all time-based codes must have the start and stop times documented in the medical record.

BLANK PAGE INTENTIONAL

«L2:Visits»

Consultation - includes

a) all visits necessary;
b) history and examination;
c) review of laboratory and/or other data;
d) written submission of the consultant's opinion; and,
e) recommendations to the referring doctor

«CODE:9H» Major Consultation $149.70*
«CODE:11H» Repeat Consultation $77.00*

A formal consultation for the same or related condition repeated within 90 days by the same physician. Repeat consultation is only to be billed when it is generated by a new formal request by the referring physician. It should not be used for routine follow-up of the patient for which either service code '5' "partial assessment or subsequent review" or service code '7' "follow-up assessment" are appropriate.

* Payment for patients 0-5 years of age and patients 65 years of age and older are automatically applied. See Section A for details.

«L2:Virtual Care Services»

Please see Virtual Care preamble in the introductory section of the Payment Schedule for more information.

«CODE:809H» Major virtual consultation provided via telephone or secure videoconference-- includes: $134.75

a) all visits necessary;
b) history;
c) review of laboratory and/or other data;
d) written submission of the consultant's opinion; and
e) recommendations to the referring doctor.

«L2:Anesthetics» -- any type; excluding local infiltration, ring block, topical or spray anesthetics.

Special call surcharges and out of hours premiums - see Section A

Where the anesthetic category is listed as:

«CODE:500H» Low Complexity: (Low) -- Start-up $33.20 $33.20
«CODE:501H» Low Complexity: (Low) -- Per 15 min $51.10 $51.10

«CODE:502H» Intermediate Complexity: (Medium) -- Start-up $38.00 $38.00
«CODE:503H» Intermediate Complexity: (Medium) -- Per 15 min $58.60 $58.60

«CODE:504H» High Complexity: (High) -- Start-up $46.00 $46.00
«CODE:505H» High Complexity: (High) -- Per 15 min $66.50 $66.50

«CODE:506H» Dental Procedures^ -- Start-up $38.00 $38.00
«CODE:507H» Dental Procedures^ -- Per 15 min $58.60 $58.60

^ All dental anesthesia for patients under age 14 is insured.

^ Anesthesia is only billable for insured oral and maxillofacial surgery or when medically necessary for other dental procedures submitted with a comment indicating the medical condition. (i.e. autism, cerebral palsy, etc.)

«L2:Complex Anesthesia Premiums»

Anesthesia premiums are payable to the anesthetist billing "H" section codes only. These services are not billable by the surgical assistant billing "J" section codes; surgical assistant must use the applicable time-of-day premiums.

«CODE:580H» Operative premium for complexity and risk – per 15 minutes $17.50 $17.50

1. Patients up to 2 years of age, a weight of greater than the 97th percentile for age according to the WHO growth charts for Canada;
2. Patients greater than 2 and up to 16 years old, a Body Mass Index, (weight[kg]/height[m]2) greater than the 97th ;
3. Patients over the age of 16, a Body Mass Index, (weight [kg]/height [m] 2) greater than 40;
4. Patients with a massive blood loss requiring transfusion of 35 or more ml/kg of blood products.

«CODE:585H» Operative premium for complexity and risk -- per 15 minutes $33.30 $33.30

1. Patients where there is recognition and agreement between the surgeon and anesthetist that undue delay in surgical treatment would pose a significant risk to life or a major body part.
2. Patients with multiple trauma involving at least 2 of the following:
a) Abdominal injury requiring laparotomy;
b) Thoracic injury requiring chest tube or thoracotomy;
c) Head injury with GCS less than 9;
d) Fracture of cervical spine, pelvis, femur, proximal tibia or humerus;
e) Burns to more than 30% of the body surface.

3. Codes 580H and 585H may be billed together and are not eligible for additional premiums.

«CODE:540H» Premium for anesthesia beginning before 5:00 p.m. & ending after 5:00 p.m. $33.30 $33.30

1. Bill for the number of 15-minute time units provided after 5:00 p.m. and indicates on comment record the start of the Anesthetic time

2. 540H is not eligible for other premiums.

Example: Procedure provided on a weekday by an anesthetist, started at 2:00 p.m. and ended at 7:00 p.m. and involved the transfusion of 40 ml/kg of blood products the codes to be billed are:
- no regular time based premiums are billable. The location of service should be 2 or 3;
- 504H (normally medium, but greater than 4 hours)
- 505H at 20 units
- 540H at 8 units (15-minute units after 5:00 p.m.)
- 580H at 20 units (all 15- minute units)

- If this procedure started at 6:00 p.m. and ended at 11:00 p.m.:
- the location of service would be submitted as a 'B' resulting in an amount in the total premium field for each applicable service line;
- 504H (normally medium but greater than 4 hours)
- 505H at 20 units
- 580H at 20 units (all 15-minute units)

«CODE:545H» Premium for anesthesia beginning before midnight (11:59 p.m.) & ending after 12:00 midnight $33.30 $33.30

1. Bill for the number of 15-minute time units provided after 12:01 a.m. using the date of service when the service was initiated, and indicate on comment record the start of the anesthetic time.
2. 545H is not eligible for other premiums.
3. Bill the number of units after midnight only.

Example: A procedure provided on a weekday by an anesthetist – started at 9:00 p.m. and ended at 2:00 a.m. – the codes to be billed are:
- The location of service would be submitted as "B" resulting in the amount in the total premium field for each applicable service line;
- 504H (normally medium, but greater than 4 hours)
- 505H at 20 units;
- 545H at 8 units (15-minute units after 12:00 a.m.)

«L2:Anesthesia Categories by Surgical Procedure»

General Considerations

Anesthesia is paid on the basis of the complexity of the surgical procedure and the total anesthetic time. The following outlines the classification of anesthetic complexity according to the surgical procedure(s).
A. Low Complexity:

a) All percutaneous diagnostic and therapeutic procedures not otherwise listed.
b) Superficial surgery on the integumentary system, nerves, vessels, muscles, tendons and bones not otherwise listed.

B. Medium Complexity:

a) Anesthesia in locations remote from the Operating Room including diagnostic or invasive radiology.
b) Anesthesia for cases listed as "low complexity" done in the prone or sitting position (requires note on claim).
c) Debridement and grafting of burns greater than 20% BSA.
d) Low complexity cases lasting longer than 90 minutes but less than 4 hours.
C. High Complexity:

a) All multiple trauma cases lasting longer than 4 hours.
b) Anesthesia for live organ donor retrieval.
c) All cases lasting longer than 4 hours.
d) All cardiac catheterizations.
e) All laser procedures in the airway.

1. HEAD

Low complexity:

a) All procedures on the external, middle or inner ear.
b) All procedures on the eye (including cataracts) or eyelids not otherwise listed.
c) Anesthesia for ECT.

Medium Complexity:

a) All procedures on the skull, mandible, maxilla, orbits and facial bones.
b) All procedures inside the nose or accessory sinuses.
c) All intraoral procedures except those listed as "High complexity".
d) The following eye procedures: repair of open eyes, scleral buckling, vitroretinal procedures, strabismus correction, corneal transplants, glaucoma procedures, tumors and enucleation.
e) All closed intracranial procedures done by needle techniques.

High Complexity:

All open intracranial procedures on the brain, meninges or cerebral vessels.
2. NECK

Medium Complexity:

a) All procedures on the thyroid gland, parathyroids, salivary glands, lymphatics and congenital brachial cleft defects.
b) All endoscopic or open procedures on the larynx or trachea not otherwise listed.

High Complexity:

a) All procedures on the major vessels.
b) Anesthesia for cystic hygroma, laryngectomy, or radical neck dissection.
c) Epiglottitis, foreign body in the airway, traumatic disruption of the larynx.

3. THORAX

Low Complexity:

a) Anesthesia for pacemakers, cardioversion, indwelling central lines.
b) All breast surgery except those procedures listed separately.

Medium Complexity:

a) Anesthesia for bronchoscopy, mediastinoscopy.
b) All procedures on the ribs.
c) Anesthesia for reduction mammoplasty or (modified) radical mastectomy, axillary node dissection.

High Complexity:

a) All intrathoracic procedures on the heart, lungs, lymphatics or great vessels.
b) All mediastinal procedures including oesophagus and thymus.
4. SPINE AND CORD

Medium Complexity

a) All procedures for decompression or disc surgery.
b) All procedures on the meninges or spinal cord and nerves not otherwise listed.
c) All procedures on the vertebrae (except biopsy) not otherwise listed.

High Complexity

a) All procedures for spine or spinal cord tumors.
b) All procedures for multi-level spine instrumentation.

5. ABDOMEN

Low Complexity:

a) All extraperitoneal procedures on the abdominal wall or urinary tract.
b) All endoscopic procedures of the GI tract from oesophagus to rectum.

Medium Complexity:

a) All intra-abdominal procedures except those listed below as "High complexity".

High Complexity:

a) Resection of liver, pancreas, stomach, colon, kidney, adrenals or retroperitoneal tumors.
b) All stomach procedures for weight reduction on morbidly obese patients.
c) Radical cystectomy and ileal conduit surgery radical prostatectomy, radical hysterectomy or cesarean hysterectomy.
d) All procedures on the aorta, its major intra-abdominal branches or vena cava.
e) Repair of congenital gastroschisis or omphalocele.
6. PERINEUM

Low Complexity:

a) All perianal or anorectal procedures (perineal approach).
b) All endoscopic urology except those listed below as "Medium complexity".
c) All procedures on the male external genitalia.
d) All procedures on the female external genitalia except those listed below as "Medium complexity".

Medium complexity:

a) Transurethral resection of prostate or bladder tumor.
b) Percutaneous nephrolithotripsy.
c) Hysteroscopic endometrial ablation, vaginal hysterectomy.
d) Radical vulvectomy with or without node dissection.
e) Amputation of the penis with or without node dissection.
f) Vaginal fistulae repairs, vaginectomy.

7. EXTREMITY SURGERY

Low Complexity

a) All distal or minor proximal orthopedic procedures, including arthroscopy, not otherwise listed.
b) All surgery for vascular access.

Medium Complexity

a) Arthroplasty of the hip, knee or shoulder.
b) All open surgery on the pelvis, hip, femur or tibial plateau.
c) Arterial vascular surgery outside the abdomen except AV fistulas.
d) All limb amputation except fingers and toes.
e) Myocutaneous flaps.
f) Major tissue resections and/or regional node dissection for malignant disease.
g) ACL reconstruction or shoulder repair.
h) Major releases for clubfoot.

High Complexity

a) Revision of arthroplasty for hip or knee.
b) Free flaps or microvascular revascularization.

«CODE:80H» Intubation for the management of the airway or ventilation, not associated with anesthetic $115.00 $103.50 0

Considered an inclusion in ICU per diem codes (400H-424H) or resuscitation codes (220A-226A) when billed by the same physician.

«L2:Nerve Blocks»

«CODE:94H» Facet Injection -- single $95.80 $95.80 0
«CODE:95H» Facet Injection -- each additional to a maximum of 5 $47.30 $47.30 0
«CODE:96H» Trigger Point -- single $47.30 $47.30 0
«CODE:97H» Trigger Point -- one additional $22.50 $22.50 0

Instances where more than two injections are required will be reviewed at the request of the physician, upon receipt of an explanation of the circumstances.

«L3:Peripheral or Paravertebral Nerves»

«CODE:98H» Single $97.80 $97.80 0
«CODE:99H» -- each additional to a maximum of three additional units $48.60 $48.60 0
«CODE:100H» With sclerosing agent -- single nerve, add $35.80 $35.80 0
«CODE:101H» -- each additional nerve to a maximum of three units, add $26.50 $26.50 0
«CODE:102H» Sciatic or obturator nerve $124.20 $124.20 0
«CODE:103H» Sciatic or obturator nerve -- with sclerosing agent $162.00 $162.00 0
«CODE:120H» Somatic plexus (e.g. brachial) $138.30 $138.30 0
«CODE:121H» Somatic plexus (e.g. brachial) -- with sclerosing agent $163.20 $163.20 0
«CODE:130H» Stellate ganglion $143.00 $143.00 0
«CODE:131H» Stellate ganglion -- with sclerosing agent $163.20 $163.20 0
«CODE:132H» Lumbar sympathetic chain $143.00 $143.00 0
«CODE:133H» Lumbar sympathetic chain -- with sclerosing agent $166.00 $166.00 0
«CODE:134H» Other ganglion/plexus (e.g. celiac) $291.00 $291.00 0
«CODE:135H» Other ganglion/plexus (e.g. celiac) -- with sclerosing agent $305.90 $305.90 0
«CODE:140H» Epidural -- lumbar or caudal $227.00 $227.00 0
«CODE:141H» Epidural -- lumbar or caudal -- with sclerosing agent $243.00 $243.00 0
«CODE:142H» Epidural -- cervical or thoracic $214.60 $214.60 0
«CODE:143H» Epidural -- cervical or thoracic -- with sclerosing agent $243.00 $243.00 0
«CODE:144H» Epidural blood patch $227.00 $227.00 0
«CODE:150H» Subarachnoid -- lumbar $214.60 $214.60 0
«CODE:151H» Subarachnoid -- lumbar -- with sclerosing agent $324.00 $324.00 0
«CODE:153H» Subarachnoid -- thoracic -- with sclerosing agent $324.00 $324.00 0
«CODE:158H» Injection of piriformis muscle $86.50 $86.50 0
«CODE:161H» X-ray control in connection with service codes 94H to 153H, add (X-ray charges extra) $64.00 $64.00 0
«CODE:220H» Therapeutic intravenous regional anesthesia $152.90 $152.90 0

«CODE:~680H» Rhizotomy - sacroiliac (SI) joint - medial branch nerves of multiple facets and SI joints - includes all radiofrequency ablations of multiple target zones. $560.00 0

@ Billable by physicians approved by the Saskatchewan Medical Association Tariff Committee. For the purposes of billing, 680H is billable on the date that the approval is granted to the physician. See "Services Billable by Entitlement".

«L2:PAIN MANAGEMENT»

«L3:Acute Pain Management»

«CODE:190H» Initiation of patient-controlled analgesia $18.00 $18.00
«CODE:191H» Injection of intrathecal opiate for post-operative pain management $15.00 $15.00
«CODE:192H» Insertion or reinsertion of continuous epidural catheter for acute pain control including initial infusion of analgesic agent -- for obstetrical cases see 600H $62.00 $62.00
«CODE:193H» Daily supervision of any acute pain control modality listed in this Acute Pain Management section starting the day after surgery -- includes all patient visits and adjustments $50.00 $50.00
«CODE:194H» Insertion or reinsertion of continuous catheter technique local anesthetic blockade (excluding epidural) for acute pain control including initial infusion of analgesic agent. $71.00 $71.00
«CODE:195H» Injection of local anesthetic to establish a major plexus block to assist in post-operative pain management -- cannot be claimed for topical, local infiltration or peripheral nerve block $61.30 $61.30

«L3:Epidural Anesthesia for Labour and Delivery»

«CODE:600H» Initial set-up and subsequent maintenance of epidural anesthesia by intermittent top-ups or continuous infusion, including continuous attendance at bedside during labour -- premiums are determined by the time of the initial set-up. $376.00 $376.00

«CODE:601H» Restart of 600H of a previously functioning epidural $181.00 $181.00
a) not payable for anesthesia shift changes;
b) please provide time of initial start-up and restart; and
c) premiums are determined by the time of the restart set-up.

«CODE:667H» Attendance during delivery (after the first hour covered under code 600H), per 15 minutes or portion thereof $41.70 $41.70

«CODE:687H» Intra-operative Transoesophageal Echocardiography -- billable with other echocardiogram or Swan-Ganz by report only $130.00 $130.00

```
«L1:SECTION H – Anesthesia»

«L2:Pain Clinic»

The following codes apply to services to patients with severe or chronic pain, which have been unresponsive to previous therapy, and who have been referred by a physician to a designated pain clinic centre recognized by the Ministry of Health.

The Initial Complete Assessment can be billed on an inpatient if the patient is admitted to the hospital as an alternative to the outpatient pain clinic in order to facilitate the work-up.

9H should be used for consultation on hospitalized patients with acute or chronic pain not specifically admitted for pain clinic work-up.

Entitlement to these benefits is limited to a recognized specialist in anesthesia or other physician with approved training. For other physicians involved in the pain control process the appropriate assessment within their own specialty section applies.

«CODE:201H» Initial Complete Assessment – includes:
a) pertinent family and patient history;
b) pain history including review of previous therapies;
c) functional enquiry; examination of all parts and systems necessary to diagnose and initiate treatment;
d) advice to patient;
e) written report to referring physician; and,
f) record of service provided.
$239.40    $239.40@

«CODE:203H» Subsequent assessment -- in-patient or out-patient – includes:
a) review of problem;
b) reassessment of pain control; 
c) review of history and physical examination as necessary to maintain on-going treatment;
d) advice to patient; and,
e) record of service provided.
$119.30    $119.30@

«CODE:205H» Minor routine follow-up assessment of patient hospitalized under pain clinic criteria – 
a) routine follow-up of pain treatment with evaluation;
b) necessary changes to on-going care; and,
c) record of service provided.
$84.00    $84.00@

@ With approved training

«L2:INTENSIVE CARE»

A. Preamble

1. The intensive care payment section is intended to be used by physicians providing direct bedside care to critically ill and potentially unstable patients who are in need of intensive treatment. For less intensive situations, such as where patients are admitted to the CCU or ICU for monitoring, it may be appropriate to use a visit fee (see below) along with codes 335H-339H.

2. This section will ordinarily be billed under the physician-in-charge of the patient for that day. Ventilatory support care is to be billed by the physician providing ventilator care, which could be the physician-in-charge or another physician. For patients who are readmitted to the unit greater than 72 hours after discharge, the first day rate will apply. 

3. If another member of the team (physicians who share call for the ICU) sees the patient in an emergency situation with the physician-in-charge being unavailable, the use of a consultation fee may be permitted if accompanied by an informative comment or written explanation (by report). 

4. Other physicians, such as surgeons, nephrologists and neurologists, concurrently involved in the patient's care can bill for consultations and/or visits. Physicians called in for a specific procedure (e.g. to insert a difficult arterial line) should bill a procedure fee only. For patients transferred from one hospital to another, the original ICU team can bill for the transfer day, while the receiving team can bill for day 1 onwards (e.g. ICU A will bill for April 1 to 4 (last day) and the receiving ICU B will bill for April 4 and onward). 

5. Premiums and surcharges are not payable with codes in this section, with the exception of the 335H-339H series of codes. 

6. Billing for consultations/procedures concurrent with the billing of intensive care:

a) Visits including consultations and some procedures are included in intensive care services when provided in the ICU/CCU units on the same day by the same physician, clinic or specialty. 
b) For consultations/visits/procedures done outside the unit Medical Services Branch requires: 
c) The consultation/visit was provided to determine the need for ICU/CCU admission not to determine the management in ICU/CCU. 
d) Confirmation the service was provided outside the ICU/CCU unit. 
e) The times of the service indicate a definite interval between the consultation/visit and intensive care services or admission time to the ICU/CCU unit. 
f) For procedures provided in or out of the ICU/CCU unit times provided should be exclusive of less intensive units (e.g. 335H). 
g) For Emergency Resuscitative procedures provided outside of the unit see section A. 
h) The patient record for less intensive care should accurately identify intervals of service on a daily basis. 

B. INTENSIVE CARE PER DIEM LISTINGS

1. The fees under physician-in-charge (normally the most responsible physician) apply per patient treated, i.e. while the physician-in-charge may change during the course of treatment, the daily fee formula as set out should be claimed by the physicians involved as if there was only one physician-in-charge during the treatment program; in this sense, the daily fees can be construed as team fees. 

2. When claiming Intensive (Critical, Ventilatory or Comprehensive) Care fees, no other Intensive Care codes may be claimed by the same physician(s) or same clinic or specialty. If a physician provides both critical and ventilatory care it should be billed as the comprehensive care codes. In either event the total fees cannot exceed the comprehensive fees. 

3. Other physicians apart from those providing Critical Care or Comprehensive Care may claim the appropriate consultation, visit and procedure fees not listed in the fee schedule for intensive Care with a meaningful explanation. 

4. If Ventilatory Support only is provided, for example, by the anesthetist(s), claims should then be made under Ventilatory Support. Comprehensive Care per diem fees do not apply. 

5. If the patient has been discharged from the Unit for more than 72 hours and is re-admitted to the Unit, the first day rate applies again on the day of re-admission. The discharge and re-admission times must accompany the billing submission. 

6. The appropriate visit and procedural codes apply after stopping Critical Care, Ventilatory Support or Comprehensive Care. 

7. The Intensive Care per diem fees should not be claimed for stabilized patients and those patients who are in an Intensive Care Unit for the purposes of monitoring. The appropriate consultation, assessment and procedural codes may apply (see preamble). 

8. Intensive Care per diem fees do not include: 
a) balloon pump insertion (132L); 
b) bronchoscopy (520L); 
c) cardiac catheterization and angiography (300A, 303A, 328A, 329A, 335A, 443A, 444A, 445A, 447A, 536A, 545A, 548A, 648A, 100C, 105C, 145C); 
d) cardiac pacemaker insertion (121L); 
e) cardioversion (42D); 
f) certification of brain death and organ donor assessment (140Q, 150Q);
g) closed chest drainage (95L); 
h) colonoscopy (448L); 
i) continuous renal replacement therapy (CCRT) (135D, 136D); 
j) ECG provided by non-team (ICU) physicians (31D); 
k) echocardiography (321A, 521A, 531A, 323A, 523A, 533A, 324A, 534A, 557A), 150C; 
l) epidural anesthesia and nerve blocks (94H-161H, 192H-195H, 220H);
m) ERCP (500L); 
n) exercise stress test (62D); 
o) hemodialysis (122D-124D, 660L, 661L); 
p) insertion of central venous catheter (134A-135A); 
q) intra-operative transesophageal echocardiography (687H); 
r) intubation for laryngeal obstruction (171T); 
s) esophagogastroscopy (402L-412L); 
t) percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG) (443L,444L,447L); 
u) peritoneal dialysis (121D, 667L, 669L, 670L); 
v) sigmoidoscopy (449L, 450L); 
w) stress echo (66D) ; 
x) Swan-Ganz catheterization (316A); 
y) tracheostomy (177T);
z) transcranial Doppler (360D).

9. Critical Care codes (400H to 424H) can be billed at the same time as the procedures listed above with no reduction to the daily fees or units. 

«L3:LESS INTENSIVE PATIENTS (such as Monitoring)»

1. Payment of these fees is for care of less intensive patients provided in either an Intensive Care or Coronary Care Unit. Code 918A (continuous personal attendance) may apply for services provided in other locations.

a) Payment is intended for the time that a physician spends with the patient. 
b) The start and end times of each visit must be indicated on the claim by the physician providing the service.

2. Payment for concurrent care is only acceptable if submitted with an explanation satisfactory to the Ministry of Health.

3. The procedures excluded from intensive care per diem are also excluded from this section (e.g. echocardiography, dialysis, etc.). However, the number of time units must be reduced accordingly for 335H to 339H.

4. Codes in this section are eligible for after-hours premiums and first patient surcharges.

5. It may be appropriate to bill for a consultation/visit with these fee codes see preamble section H. In some circumstances, accurate times and meaningful explanations must be included with submission.

6. Where a patient is transferred from critical care to less intensive care the care is considered a continuation of the same hospitalization and care is based on the number of days since the initial hospitalization or the first day of intensive care (e.g. If a patient was in critical care from April 1 to 4 and moved to less intensive care on April 4 to 6, the codes billed would be 400H, 401H, 402H and 337H etc.).

7. ECG interpretations may be billed in addition to 335H to 339H.

Billed in units of 15 minutes each 

«CODE:335H» Day 1  
per unit -- maximum of 6 units per day    $39.10    $39.10
«CODE:336H» Day 2   
per unit -- maximum of 5 units per day    $39.10    $39.10
«CODE:337H» Days 3 to 7  
per unit -- maximum of 3 units per day    $39.10    $39.10
«CODE:338H» Days 8 to 30  
per unit -- maximum of 2 units per day    $41.00    $41.00
«CODE:339H» Days 31 & thereafter  
per unit -- maximum of 1 unit per day    $41.00    $41.00

«L3:CRITICAL CARE (Intensive Care Area)»

1. Includes provision of all aspects of care of a critically ill patient in an Intensive Critical Care Area, excluding ventilatory support, but including:

a) cutdowns, intraosseous infusion;
b) emergency resuscitation;
c) endotracheal intubation;
d) insertion of arterial lines;
e) initial consultation and assessment;
f) intracranial pressure monitoring interpretation and assessment when indicated (excluding insertion of I.C.P. measuring device);
g) intravenous lines;
h) oximetry;
i) pressure infusion sets and pharmacological agents;
j) securing and interpretation of laboratory tests;
k) transcutaneous blood gases;
l) urinary catheters and nasogastric tubes.

2. These fees are not billable for services rendered to patients admitted for ECG monitoring or observation alone.

Physician-in-Charge is the physician(s) daily providing the above: 

«CODE:400H» Day 1  
-- per diem    $352.00    $352.00
«CODE:401H» Day 2
-- per diem    $179.00    $179.00
«CODE:402H» Days 3 to 7
-- per diem    $179.00    $179.00
«CODE:403H» Days 8 to 30
-- per diem    $90.00    $90.00
«CODE:404H» Days 31 & thereafter
-- per diem    $30.70    $30.70

«L3:VENTILATORY SUPPORT (Intensive Care Area)»

Includes:
a) endotracheal intubation with positive pressure ventilation including insertion of arterial lines
b) obtaining and interpretation of blood gases
c) intravenous lines
d) Intubation (80H) when performed by the same physician claiming ICU per diems (400H-424H)
e) oximetry
f) provision of ventilatory care including initial consultation and assessment
g) tracheal toilet
h) transcutaneous blood gases and assessment
i) use of artificial ventilator and all necessary measures for its supervision

Physician-in-Charge is the physician(s) daily providing the above:

«CODE:410H» Day 1
-- per diem    $295.70    $295.70
«CODE:411H» Day 2
-- per diem    $148.80    $148.80
«CODE:412H» Days 3 to 7
-- per diem    $148.80    $148.80
«CODE:413H» Days 8 to 30
-- per diem    $102.90    $102.90
«CODE:414H» Days 31 & thereafter
-- per diem    $40.00    $40.00

«L3:COMPREHENSIVE CARE (Intensive Care Area)»

1. These fees apply to Intensive Care physicians who provide complete care (both Critical Care and Ventilatory Support as defined above) to Intensive Care Area patients

2. These fees include:
a) arterial and/or venous catheters;
b) artificial ventilation and necessary measures for respiratory support;
c) cardioversion and usual resuscitative measures;
d) cutdowns;
e) defibrillation;
f) emergency resuscitation;
g) endotracheal intubation;
h) initial consultation and assessment and subsequent examinations of the patient;
i) insertion of intravenous lines;
j) insertion of urinary catheters and nasogastric tubes;
k) intracranial pressure monitoring, interpretation and assessment when indicated (excluding insertion of I.C.P. measuring device);
l) intubation (80H) when performed by the same physician claiming ICU per diems (400H-424H);
m) intraosseous infusion;
n) oximetry;
o) pressure infusion sets and pharmacological agents;
p) securing and interpretation of blood gases and laboratory tests;
q) tracheal toilet;
r) transcutaneous blood gases.

3. Intensive care fees are not billable for services rendered to patients admitted for ECG monitoring or observation alone.

4. If the patient has been reassigned from critical care to comprehensive care, the day of the transfer shall be deemed for payment purposes to be the second day of comprehensive care and may be billed with a meaningful explanation (e.g. A patient was in critical care from April 1 to 4 and then transferred to comprehensive care on April 4 to 6. The billing would be 400H, 401H, 402H, 421H, 422H and 422H).

Physician-in-Charge is the physician(s) daily providing the above:

«CODE:420H» Day 1  
-- per diem    $577.50    $577.50
«CODE:421H» Day 2  
-- per diem    $265.00    $265.00
«CODE:422H» Days 3 to 7  
-- per diem    $265.00    $265.00
«CODE:423H» Days 8 to 30
-- per diem    $130.00    $130.00
«CODE:424H» Days 31 & thereafter  
-- per diem    $68.45    $68.45

«L1:SECTION I – Cardiology»

«L2:Visits»

«CODE:3I*» Complete assessment -- includes:     $90.25    $72.15
a) pertinent family history;
b) patient history;
c) history of presenting complaint;
d) functional enquiry;
e) examination of all parts and systems; 
f) diagnosis
g) assessment;
h) necessary treatment;  advice to the patient; and,
i) record of service provided

«CODE:5I*» Partial assessment or subsequent visit -- includes:     $86.45    $59.55
a) history review;
b) history of presenting complaint;
c) functional enquiry;
d) examination of affected part(s) or system(s);
e) diagnosis;
f) assessment;
g) necessary treatment;
h) advice to the patient; and,
i) record of service provided

«CODE:9I*» Consultation – includes:
a) all visits necessary;
b) history and examination;
c) review of laboratory and/or other data;
d) written submission of the consultant's opinion; and, 
e) recommendations to the referring doctor    $174.70

«CODE:11I*» Repeat consultation    $88.00

A formal consultation for the same or related condition repeated within 90 days by the same physician.  Repeat consultation is only to be billed when it is generated by a new formal request by the referring physician. It should not be used for routine follow-up of the patient for which service code 5I "partial assessment or subsequent visit" is appropriate.

* Payment for patients 0-5 years of age and patients 65 years of age and older are automatically applied.

«L2:Hospital Care – Payable on day of admission»

Hospital care is billable by the physician responsible for inpatient care of patients admitted to hospital. Hospital care includes all of the routine services required to manage in hospital care. Additional services provided as a result of an acute episode may be payable with an explanation.

Post-operative hospital care is included in the surgical fee and can only be paid if hospital care is provided by another physician for a condition unrelated to the surgery. Upon transfer of hospital care to another physician, billing of hospital care should be as if there was a continuation of care under the same physician. An assessment or consultation may not be billed when hospital care is transferred to another physician.

Hospital care may be billed for short term acute care patients who are admitted to a health centre in the same manner as an acute care hospital. Physicians may not use hospital care to cover in-hospital patients who are designated as long-term care. These patients are to be billed under codes 627A-629A – Special Care Home Management.

«CODE:25I» -- 1-10 days
-- per day -- bill units (max 10)    $40.50    $40.50
«CODE:26I» -- 11-20 days
-- per day -- bill units (max 10)    $35.50    $35.50
«CODE:27I» -- 21-30 days
-- per day -- bill units (max 10)    $35.50    $35.50
«CODE:28I» -- 31 days and thereafter
-- per day -- bill units (max 99)    $30.00    $30.00

«L2:Virtual Care Services»

Please see Virtual Care preamble in the introductory section of the Payment Schedule for more information.

«CODE:805I» Virtual partial assessment or subsequent virtual visit provided via telephone or secure videoconference-- includes:    $77.80    $53.60
a) history review;
b) history of presenting complaint;
c) functional enquiry;
d) diagnosis;
e) assessment; 
f) necessary treatment; 
g) advice to the patient; and 
h) record of service provided.

«CODE:809I» Virtual consultation provided via telephone or secure videoconference-- includes:    $157.25
a) all visits necessary; 
b) history;
c) review of laboratory and/or other data;
d) written submission of the consultant's opinion; and
e) recommendations to the referring doctor.

«CODE:811I» Repeat virtual consultation provided via telephone or secure videoconference:    $79.20

A formal virtual consultation for the same or related condition repeated within 90 days by the same physician. Repeat virtual consultation is only to be billed when it is generated by a new formal request by the referring physician. It should not be used for routine virtual follow-up of the patient for which service code '805I' "Virtual partial assessment or subsequent virtual visit" is appropriate.

BLANK PAGE INTENTIONAL
```

Looking at this content, I can identify the section structure and codes:

«L1:SECTION I – Cardiology»

«L2:Procedures»

Additional payments for diagnostic service excluding ECGs, 0, 10 or 42 day operative procedures performed on patients under one (1) year of age are automatically calculated and paid as explained in Section A.

«CODE:~13I» Interpretation of telephonic rhythm strips and/or ECGs by cardiologist with prompt response and advice to the referring physician on immediate case management (not to be used for routine test interpretation) -- per patient $39.75 $31.75@

@ Payment approved for a physician with training and expertise in this section

«L3:Electrophysiology»

«CODE:90I» Catheter ablation for atrial fibrillation and left-sided atrial flutters - Composite Fee to include services such as catheterization(s), ablation(s), electrophysiology study, and cardioversion(s) (if necessary).

a) Payable 2 per patient per year; 
b) Any further billing should be by report with an appropriate explanation. $1763.70  0 L

«CODE:105I» Full electrophysiology study - atrial and ventricular programmed electrical stimulation $1172.40  D

«CODE:110I» Partial electrophysiology study - atrial and ventricular programmed electrical stimulation $484.30  D

«CODE:115I» Electrophysiological study using previously inserted electrode $280.40  D

«CODE:130I» Electrophysiological study/ablation - team fee 
a) second physician must be a certified electrophysiologist 
b) maximum fee of $1,019.50. 50% of Electrophysiologist Fee

«CODE:135I» Cardiac electrophysiologic drug infusion study -- per 15 minutes or major portion thereof $35.70  D

«CODE:200I» Catheter ablation of supraventricular tachycardia (SVT) in addition to an electrophysiology study – add $266.10  0

«CODE:205I» Catheter ablation of ventricular tachycardia (VT) in addition to an electrophysiology study – add $433.30  0

«CODE:210I» Repeat catheter ablation at a second site during the same electrophysiology Study $137.60  0

«CODE:300I» ICD clinic services - clinical supervision, review of interrogation record and necessary adjustment - includes ECG interpretation $49.70  D

«CODE:305I» Implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) - defibrillation testing (DFT) $402.70  0 H

«L1:SECTION J – Surgical Assisting»

1. Calculation of the payment to a surgical assistant is based on the time between the induction of anesthesia and when continuous attendance by the surgical assistant is no longer required. When no anesthetic is administered, the time is calculated from the beginning to the end of the procedure.

2. Payment for the services of an assistant during surgery will be made for:

a) Surgical procedures normally requiring an assistant; 

b) Surgical procedures not normally requiring an assistant where unusual circumstances occur necessitating the services of an assistant, and where an explanation satisfactory to the Ministry of Health is provided.

3. Payment may be made for the services of more than one surgical assistant where a satisfactory explanation is received for the services of a second or additional assistants required during surgery.

4. Procedures performed by the surgical assistant during the same anesthetic time for surgery are subject to "Assessment Rules -- Procedures".

5. Per "Documentation Requirements for the Purposes of Billing", all time-based codes must have the start and stop times documented in the medical record.

«L2:Surgical Assistant -- billable by any physician»

«CODE:30J» -- up to 60 minutes $177.20 $177.20
«CODE:31J» -- for each additional 15 minutes, or major portion thereof $47.65 $47.65

«L2:Surgical Assistant for Unscheduled Emergency Surgery»

«CODE:60J» -- first patient - up to 60 minutes $238.60 $238.60
«CODE:70J» -- each additional patient - up to 60 minutes $197.85 $197.85
«CODE:61J» -- for each additional 15 minutes, or major portion thereof $47.65 $47.65

«L2:Surgical Assistant for Scheduled Surgery»

Billable by office-based physicians who provide scheduled surgical assisting services on weekdays during regular office hours (8:00 am - 5:00 pm) and who earn less than 50% of their income submitted and paid through the MSB billing system from surgical assistance.

«CODE:80J» -- up to 60 minutes $193.95 $193.95
«CODE:81J» -- for each additional 15 minutes, or major portion thereof $52.10 $52.10

«CODE:40J» Surgical Assistant Standby 
a) For each 15 minutes or major portion thereof (maximum 30 minutes), e.g. claim if called to stand-by during laparoscopy with the possibility of laparotomy. 
b) Not to be billed for time spent awaiting start of operation and not paid along with 30J, 31J, 60J, 61J, 70J, 80J, 81J, 331K, 332J, 333J or 334J. 
c) Bill units. $34.90 $34.90

«CODE:50J» Specialist O/R Standby
a) For each 15 minutes or major portion thereof, not to be billed for time spent awaiting start of operation. 
b) Payable only if surgeon is required to participate in part of a surgical procedure and must remain immediately available to the O/R and is unable to perform any other billable work. 
c) Does not apply to delayed surgical start or cases where the current surgical payment includes reimbursement for standby times. $28.70

«CODE:~332J» Surgical assist
a) Payment based upon first surgeon's assessed claim.
b) Specialist only.
c) Include a notation/comment of the services billed by the first surgeon with your claim(s) to the MSB.
d) See table on following page for applicable surgical codes. 1/3 of First Surgeons Claim

«CODE:~333J» Surgical assist
a) Payment based upon first surgeon's assessed claim.
b) @ Only general practitioners designated by the Saskatchewan Medical Association Tariff Committee is eligible.
c) @ General practitioners performing specialized assistance may apply to the Saskatchewan Medical Association Tariff Committee for approval to bill 333J services for the appended list of services where their role as the first assistant is demonstrably essential to the performance of the procedure and in whose absence the procedure will be cancelled.
d) For the purposes of billing, 333J is billable on the date that the approval is granted to the physician. See "Services Billable by Entitlement".
e) See table on following page for applicable surgical codes. 30% of First Surgeons Claim @

«CODE:~334J» Surgical assist -- second assistant 
a) Payment based upon first surgeon's assessed claim. 
b) @ Only general practitioners designated by the Saskatchewan Medical Association Tariff Committee is eligible.
c) For the purposes of billing, 333J is billable on the date that the approval is granted to the physician. See "Services Billable by Entitlement".
d) General practitioner assistants may apply for approval to bill 334J services for cardiac surgery procedures where their specialized role is similar to that of a specialist assistant.
e) See table on following page for applicable cardiac surgical codes. 30% of First Surgeons Claim @

1. The following procedures, because of their complexity, may require the services of two specialist surgeons (includes FCS physicians). 
2. Where the second surgeon's involvement is more than routine assistance in the procedure, they may bill 1/3 of the surgeon's payment or the standard assist codes, whichever is greater. 
3. The services considered for this billing option includes the list below:

«L3:Codes for optional billing of 332J or 333J, 334J»

57K Craniotomy
58K Cerebellar or cerebral arteriovenous malformation or aneurysm excision or
65K Extra-axial brain tumor excision
92K, 93K Lateral canthal advancements
117K, 118K Skull fractures 
175K DREZ procedures for intractable pain
253K Microsurgical decompression of cranial nerves
100L, 101L Thoracoscopic lung resection
30L, 31L, 33L Composite resection of mandible and floor of mouth, partial or total maxillectomy
149L, 150L, 153L, etc. Cardiac surgery (procedures requiring bypass 161L or 138L)
169L Femoro-popliteal
188L Aorto-carotid; aorto-axillary; aorto-coeliac; aorto-superior mesenteric; aorto-innominate; renal; thoracic or abdominal aorta
246L Complex incisional hernia with Inlay mesh
247L Paraesophageal hernia repair
281L to 284L Microvascular digital vessel revascularization
298L, 299L, 320L Osophagogastrectomy
305L Total gastrectomy
328L Laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy
342L, 343L, 344L or 442L Laparoscopic colectomy
327L Laparoscopic roux-en-y bypass
352L Abdominoperineal resection
358L Anterior resection
370L Low anterior resection with total mesorectal excision (TME)
417L Major liver resections
420L Pancreatectomy
426L Laparoscopic Adrenalectomy
428L Laparoscopic Extra-adrenal phacochromocytoma or other retroperitoneal tumor
435L Complete block dissection of the neck
439L Retroperitoneal lymphadenectomy
462L Femoro-tibial or peroneal
463L Femoro-pedal
464L Axillo - axillary, axillo-femoral; carotid-subclavian; cross femoral; ilio-femoral; subclavian-subclavian; other arteries of neck or extremities
469L, 470L, 471L, 472L, 473L, 474L Thromboendarterectomy (Independent Procedure) femoral
568L, 668L, 768L, 460L Bifurcation grafts
652L Bental procedure
790L Aorto femoral -- unilateral with thromboendarterectomy of profunda femoris
791L Aorto femoral -- bilateral with thromboendarterectomy of profunda femoris

1. The following procedures, because of their complexity, may require the services of two specialist surgeons (includes FCS physicians). 
2. Where the second surgeon's involvement is more than routine assistance in the procedure, they may bill 1/3 of the surgeon's payment or the standard assist codes, whichever is greater. 
3. The services considered for this billing option includes the list below:

«L3:Codes for optional billing of 332J or 333J, 334J»

50M femur -- trochanteric or subtrochanteric
103M radical resection of bone for tumor with bone graft -- major bone
192M pelvis fracture – open reduction
315M tibia plateau open reduction
375M knee lateral collateral ligament and/or posterolateral corner - reconstruction with autograft
442M total elbow replacement
444M total knee arthroplasty includes unicompartmental knee and patellar replacement
445M/845M total hip replacement or reconstructive arthroplasty
446M/846M total shoulder replacement
448M total wrist replacement
449M/849M total ankle replacement
450M arthrodesis – shoulder
454M arthrodesis – hip
455M arthrodesis – knee
456M arthrodesis – ankle
520M clubfoot surgery
573M hip (femur) -- congenital -- open reduction
575M pelvic osteotomy -- Salter, etc
844M total knee arthroplasty includes unicompartmental knee and patellar replacement – revision
440N Transverse rectus abdominis myocutaneous flap for breast reconstruction
500N to 506N Microvascular Surgery
71P, 72P Radical vulvectomy
104P Abdominosacrocolpopexy
124P Total vaginal hysterectomy
125P Radical hysterectomy
126P Laparoscopic hysterectomy
102R Ileocystoplasty
106R Ileal conduit
124R Radical prostatectomy
136R Laparoscopic nephrectomy
138R Radical nephrectomy
142R Ileal substitution of ureter
95R, 96R, 97R Cystectomy
304R Renal homotransplant - vascular surgeon
193T Total Laryngectomy
197T (30L, 31L, 33L) Composite resection of mandible and floor of mouth, partial or total maxillectomy

BLANK PAGE INTENTIONAL

«L1:SECTION K – Neurosurgery»

«L2:Visits»

«CODE:5K*» Initial assessment -- of a specific condition includes: $95.20* $76.20*
a) pertinent family history;
b) patient history;
c) history of presenting complaint;
d) functional enquiry;
e) examination of affected part(s) or system(s); 
f) diagnosis;
g) assessment;
h) necessary treatment;  
i) advice to the patient; and,
j) record of service provided.

«CODE:7K*» Follow-up assessment -- includes: $58.95* $54.15*
a) history review;
b) reassessment;
c) functional enquiry;
d) examination;
e) necessary treatment;
f) advice to the patient; and,
g) record of service provided.

«CODE:~8K*» Consultation -- spinal, complex $173.10*
a) at least 30 minutes documented duration including history, physical, review of imaging and recommendations to referring physician; 
b) includes traumatic, tumour, infection, degenerative; 
c) can be billed by all neurosurgeons; 
d) can also be billed with entitlement by physicians who perform spinal instrumentation and fusion procedures**

«CODE:9K*» Consultation – includes: $168.20*
a) all visits necessary;
b) history and examination;
c) review of laboratory and/or other data; and,
d) written submission of the consultant's opinion, and, 
e) recommendations to the referring doctor

«CODE:~10K*» Consultation -- spinal, routine $110.55*
a) less than 30 minutes documented duration including history, physical, review of imaging and recommendations to referring physician;
b) can be used for any spine referral; and,
c) can be billed by all neurosurgeons and orthopedic surgeons

«CODE:11K*» Repeat consultation $63.00*
A formal consultation for the same or related condition repeated within 90 days by the same physician. Repeat consultation is only to be billed when it is generated by a new formal request by the referring physician. It should not be used for routine follow-up of the patient for which service code 7K "follow-up assessment" is appropriate.

* Payment for patients 0-5 years of age and patients 65 years of age and older are automatically applied.

** For the purposes of billing, 8K and 14K are billable on the date that the approval is granted to the physician. See "Services Billable by Entitlement".

«CODE:~14K*» Follow-up visit, spinal, complex $62.00* $55.80*
a) billable for those patients previously billed as initial spine consult, complex
b) can be billed by all neurosurgeons
c) can also be billed with entitlement by physicians who perform spinal instrumentation and fusion procedures **

«CODE:15K*» Follow-up visit, spinal, routine - can be billed by all neurosurgeons and orthopedic surgeons $50.00* $45.00*

* Payment for patients 0-5 years of age and patients 65 years of age and older are automatically applied.

** For the purposes of billing, 8K and 14K are billable on the date that the approval is granted to the physician. See "Services Billable by Entitlement".

«L2:Hospital Care – Payable on the day of admission»

Hospital care is billable by the physician responsible for inpatient care of patients admitted to hospital. Hospital care includes all of the routine services required to manage in hospital care. Additional services provided as a result of an acute episode may be payable with an explanation.

Post-operative hospital care is included in the surgical fee and can only be paid if hospital care is provided by another physician for a condition unrelated to the surgery. Upon transfer of hospital care to another physician, billing of hospital care should be as if there was a continuation of care under the same physician. An assessment or consultation may not be billed when hospital care is transferred to another physician.

Hospital care may be billed for short term acute care patients who are admitted to a health centre in the same manner as an acute care hospital.

Physicians may not use hospital care to cover in-hospital patients who are designated as long-term care. These patients are to be billed under codes 627A-629A – Special Care Home Management.

«CODE:25K» -- 1-10 days -- per day -- bill units (max 10) $47.10 $47.10
«CODE:26K» -- 11-20 days -- per day -- bill units (max 10) $41.20 $41.20
«CODE:27K» -- 21-30 days -- per day -- bill units (max 10) $41.20 $41.20
«CODE:28K» -- 31 days and thereafter -- per day -- bill units (max 99) $41.20 $41.20

«L2:Virtual Care Services»

Please see Virtual Care preamble in the introductory section of the Payment Schedule for more information.

«CODE:807K» Virtual follow-up assessment visit provided via telephone or secure videoconference-- includes: $53.05 $48.75
a) history review;
b) reassessment;
c) functional enquiry; 
d) necessary treatment; 
e) advice to the patient; and 
f) record of service provided.

«CODE:809K» Virtual consultation provided via telephone or secure videoconference-- includes: $151.40
a) all visits necessary; 
b) history;
c) review of laboratory and/or other data;
d) written submission of the consultant's opinion; and
e) recommendations to the referring doctor.

«CODE:810K» Virtual consultation – spinal, routine, provided via telephone or secure videoconference-- includes: $99.50
a) history, review of imaging and recommendations to referring physician; 
b) can be used for any spine referral; and 
c) can be billed by all neurosurgeons and orthopedic surgeons.

«CODE:811K» Repeat virtual consultation provided via telephone or secure videoconference: $56.70
A formal virtual consultation for the same or related condition repeated within 90 days by the same physician. Repeat virtual consultation is only to be billed when it is generated by a new formal request by the referring physician. It should not be used for routine virtual follow-up of the patient for which service code '807K' "Virtual follow-up assessment" is appropriate.

«CODE:815K» Virtual follow-up visit, spinal, routine provided via telephone or secure videoconference - Can be billed by all neurosurgeons and orthopedic surgeons $45.00 $40.50

BLANK PAGE INTENTIONAL

«L1:S E C T I O N K – Neurosurgery»

«L2:Procedures»

Additional payments for diagnostic service excluding ECGs, 0, 10 or 42 day 
operative procedures performed on patients under one (1) year of age are 
automatically calculated and paid as explained in Section A.

«CODE:31K» Subdural taps through fontanel -- initial or repeat    $33.80    $33.80    D    L
«CODE:32K» Ventricular puncture through previous burr or fontanel    $56.50    $50.90    D    M
«CODE:35K» Implantation of an intracranial monitor for measuring intracranial pressure    $250.00    $225.00    0    L
«CODE:36K» Double blind morphine pain study    $110.10    $98.90    D

«L3:Intercranial Procedures – Non-traumatic»

«CODE:50K» Operative management of brain abscess    $1,200.00    $1,080.00    42    H
«CODE:51K» Suboccipital craniectomy for tractotomy or cranial nerve section    $937.90    $844.10    42    H
«CODE:253K» Micro-surgical decompression of cranial nerve    $1,700.00    $1,529.95    42    M
«CODE:66K» Percutaneous thermocoagulation (rhizotomy) of trigeminal nerve or ganglion    $633.10    $569.80    42    L
«CODE:55K» Craniotomy and orbital decompression – unilateral    $668.80    $601.50    42    H
«CODE:56K» Craniotomy and orbital decompression – bilateral    $805.40    $724.90    42    H
«CODE:57K» Cerebellar or cerebral tumor – excision    $2,450.00    $2,205.00    42    H
«CODE:58K» Cerebellar or cerebral arteriovenous malformation or aneurysm -- excision or obliteration    $3,000.00    $2,700.00    42    H
«CODE:59K» Stereotactic procedures -- framed or frameless to obtain deep tumor biopsy, localization and guidance during craniotomy for tumor excision    $1,000.00    $900.00    42    H
«CODE:60K» Cortical excision for epilepsy, hypophysectomy or excision of choroid plexus    $1,500.00    $1,350.00    42    H
«CODE:61K» Intra-operative electrophysiological monitoring and/or stimulation -- add to any intracranial procedure    $300.00    $270.00    42
«CODE:62K» Excision of osteomyelitis of skull    $750.00    $675.00    42    M
«CODE:63K» Excision of skull tumor    $600.00    $540.00    42    M
«CODE:64K» Excision of skull tumor with immediate cranioplasty    $750.00    $675.00    42    M
«CODE:65K» Extra-axial brain tumor (microdissection, CO2 laser, ultrasonic aspirator)    $3,150.00    $2,835.00    42    H
«CODE:80K» Ventriculocisternostomy    $750.00    $675.00    42    M
«CODE:81K» Repair of encephalocele    $900.00    $810.00    42    H
«CODE:82K» Shunts for hydrocephalus -- any type    $1,350.00    $1,215.00    42    M
«CODE:83K» Shunts for hydrocephalus -- revision during the same hospital admission as original procedure    $625.00    $562.50    42    M
«CODE:84K» Shunts for hydrocephalus - revision – independent procedure upper end    $950.00    $855.00    42    M
«CODE:85K» Shunts for hydrocephalus -- lower end    $600.00    $540.00    42    M
«CODE:86K» Removal of ventriculo peritoneal shunt without simultaneous revision    $300.00    $270.00    42    L
«CODE:90K» Craniectomy for craniostenosis -- single suture    $621.90    $559.70    42    M
«CODE:91K» Craniectomy for craniostenosis -- multiple sutures    $980.00    $882.00    42    M

«CODE:92K» Lateral canthal advancement – unilateral    $851.30    $766.70    42    M
«CODE:93K» Lateral canthal advancement – bilateral    $1,047.00    $942.00    42    M
«CODE:100K» Burr holes -- exploratory with or without biopsy    $242.60    $218.20    42    M
«CODE:101K» Burr holes -- with external ventricular drainage    $362.90    $326.60    42    M
«CODE:102K» Burr holes -- with C T guided biopsy    $370.10    $333.10    42    M
«CODE:103K» Sub-temporal decompression    $407.80    $367.00    42    M
«CODE:106K» Extracranial to intracranial bypass    $1,500.00    $1,350.00    42    H

«L3:Procedures for Traumatic Intracranial Lesions»

«CODE:113K» Evacuation of hematoma -- via burr holes    $1,150.00    $1,035.00    42    M
«CODE:114K» Evacuation of hematoma -- via craniotomy    $1,500.00    $1,350.00    42    H
«CODE:116K» Elevation of simple depressed skull fracture    $702.50    $632.20    42    M
«CODE:117K» Compound depressed skull fracture with debridement of brain and repair of dura    $921.60    $829.50    42    H
«CODE:118K» Compound depressed fracture with sinus involvement or reconstruction of the orbit    $794.20    $714.70    42    M
«CODE:119K» Cranioplasty for skull defect    $900.00    $810.00    42    M
«CODE:121K» Craniotomy for cerebrospinal fluid rhinorrhea    $1,013.40    $912.00    42    H
«CODE:122K» Intracranial duraplasty -- for a deficiency greater than 2 cm. diameter -- add to intracranial procedure    $163.10    $146.80    42

«L3:Peripheral Nerve Lesions»

«CODE:156K» Biopsy of sural nerve    $203.90    $183.50    D    L
«CODE:157K» Removal of tumor -- major peripheral nerve (e.g. median or ulna)    $509.80    $458.80    42    L
«CODE:158K» Decompression of entrapment syndrome -- median nerve    $327.30    $294.50    42    L
«CODE:159K» Decompression of entrapment syndrome -- others    $540.00    $486.00    42    L
«CODE:160K» Section or crushing of nerve    $127.50    $114.30    42    L
«CODE:161K» Neuroma excision    $356.80    $321.10    42    L
«CODE:162K» Exploration of peripheral nerve injury or neurolysis    $440.40    $396.40    42    L
«CODE:163K» Nerve suture (other than digital)    $615.00    $553.45    42    L
«CODE:164K» Nerve suture with special techniques to overcome gap    $715.00    $643.45    42    L
«CODE:165K» Digital nerve suture    $410.00    $369.00    42    L
«CODE:166K» Exploration of brachial or lumbar plexus with or without suture    $382.30    $343.60    42    L
«CODE:167K» Nerve anastomosis for intracranial nerve injury    $414.90    $373.10    42    L
«CODE:368K» Secondary or delayed nerve repair – one-month post-injury, add    $155.00    $139.50    42    L
«CODE:468K» Fascicular instead of epineural nerve repair, add    $185.50    $166.20    42    M
«CODE:168K» Nerve grafting procedures -- single cable    $390.00    $350.75    42    L
«CODE:268K» Nerve grafting procedures – multiple cables    $715.00    $643.45    42    L
«CODE:169K» Transposition of ulnar nerve    $496.75    $447.05    42    L
«CODE:170K» Extracranial anastomosis for facial nerve lesion -- hypoglossal accessory, etc.    $422.10    $380.30    42    L

«CODE:171K» Radiofrequency spinal rhizotomy    $202.20    $182.00    0    L
«CODE:172K» Facial nerve - microsurgical graft – neurosurgeon    $422.10    $380.30    42    L
«CODE:173K» Facial nerve - microsurgical graft -- general surgeon    $306.90    $276.30    42    L
«CODE:174K» Selective dorsal rhizotomy for spasticity    $1,157.10    $1,040.90    42    M
«CODE:175K» DREZ procedure for intractable pain    $825.80    $743.20    42    M

«L3:Vegetative Nervous System»

«CODE:180K» Cervical sympathectomy – unilateral    $309.90    $278.30    42    M
«CODE:181K» Cervical sympathectomy – bilateral    $427.20    $384.40    42    M
«CODE:182K» Cervico-thoracic sympathectomy – unilateral    $392.50    $353.30    42    H
«CODE:183K» Cervico-thoracic sympathectomy – bilateral    $512.80    $461.50    42    H
«CODE:184K» Lumbar sympathectomy – unilateral    $336.40    $302.80    42    M
«CODE:185K» Lumbar sympathectomy – bilateral    $407.80    $367.00    42    M

«L3:Exposures for Neurosurgery»

«CODE:210K» Trans-abdominal exposure of lumbar and lower thoracic spine for neurosurgical procedure    $459.80    $413.80    42    M
«CODE:211K» Trans-thoracic exposure of lower cervical or thoracic spine for neurosurgical procedure    $425.00    $382.55    42    M
«CODE:212K» Trans-sphenoidal exposure of pituitary for hypophysectomy    $1,000.00    $899.95    42    M

NOTE:  Standby time is billable as 50J for the period of time between 
the completion of opening and the start of the closure.

Example: 
a) If procedure is 3.5 hours in entirety and opening and closure 
combined takes 1 hour  
b) Standby is then 2.5 hours  
c) Total billing would be the appropriate K code (210K, 211K, or 
212K) and ten 15 minute units of 50J. 
d) Codes 210K to 212K are exempt from the multiple surgery 
rules.

«L3:Deep Brain Electrode For Movement Disorders»

«CODE:235K» Installation of deep brain electrode    $2,000.00    $1,799.90    42    H
«CODE:236K» -- add  - micro-electrode recording and stimulation    $509.80    $458.80    42    H
«CODE:237K» -- add  - internalization of deep brain electrode using single channel IPG    $254.90    $229.40    42    H
«CODE:238K» -- add  - internalization of deep brain implant using dual channel IPG or pulse Generator    $407.80    $367.00    42    H

«L3:Neuromodulation Clinic Services»

a) Clinic supervision, patient monitoring and adjustment of 
stimulation parameters, drug dose and/or drug mix.  
b) Includes advice to the patient, either directly or indirectly 
through the neuromodulation nurse. 
c) Visit fee payable if patient reviewed for a condition unrelated 
to neuromodulation device function)

«CODE:278K» Patient not seen    $29.40    $26.40
«CODE:279K» Patient seen    $43.40    $39.00    0

«L2:SPINE SURGERY»

«L3:Anterior Decompression – Cervical»

«CODE:500K» Odontoidectomy    $1,682.20    $1,514.00    42    H
«CODE:501K» Odontoidectomy -- exposure by separate surgeon    $1,297.80    $1,168.00    42    H
«CODE:502K» Odontoidectomy -- exposure by primary surgeon – add    $392.50    $353.30    42
«CODE:503K» Discectomy -- 1 level    $1,088.80    $979.90    42    M
«CODE:504K» Discectomy -- each additional level – add    $350.00    $315.00    42
«CODE:505K» Vertebrectomy -- includes adjacent discs    $1,701.50    $1,531.40    42    H
«CODE:506K» Vertebrectomy -- each additional level -- add -- maximum of 3    $475.00    $427.50    42
«CODE:507K» Artificial discs -- includes discectomy and fusion    $1,924.60    $1,732.15    42    H
«CODE:508K» Artificial discs -- additional level -- add -- maximum of 1    $1,529.30    $1,376.30    42

Fee codes 507K & 508K are not billable with any other cervical  
decompression, fusion or instrumentation  

«L3:Anterior Decompression – Thoracic»

«CODE:514K» Discectomy    $994.05    $894.70    42    M
«CODE:714K» Discectomy -- each additional level – add    $298.00    $268.20    42    M
«CODE:515K» Vertebrectomy – includes adjacent discs    $1,712.80    $1,541.50    42    H
«CODE:516K» Vertebrectomy -- each additional level -- add -- maximum of 3    $254.90    $229.40    42
«CODE:517K» Exposure by primary surgeon    $448.60    $403.70    42    M

«L3:Anterior Decompression – Lumbar»

«CODE:523K» Discectomy    $1,010.95    $909.80    42    M
«CODE:723K» Discectomy -- each additional level -- add    $298.00    $268.25    42    M
«CODE:524K» Vertebrectomy -- includes adjacent discs    $1,567.65    $1,410.85    42    H
«CODE:525K» Vertebrectomy -- each additional level -- add -- maximum of 2    $254.90    $229.40    42
«CODE:526K» Artificial disc -- includes discectomy and fusion    $1,924.60    $1,732.15    42    H
«CODE:527K» Artificial disc -- additional level -- add -- maximum of 1    $1,529.30    $1,376.30    42
«CODE:528K» Exposure by primary surgeon    $298.30    $268.45    42    M

«L3:Posterior Decompression – Cervical and Thoracic»

«L4:Laminectomy, Laminotomy, Foraminotomy»

«CODE:534K» -- unilateral    $881.90    $793.70    42    M
«CODE:535K» -- bilateral    $1,100.00    $990.00    42    M
«CODE:536K» -- each additional level -- add -- maximum of 4    $229.40    $205.90    42
«CODE:537K» -- discectomy – add    $310.90    $279.90    42
«CODE:538K» --  foramen magnum – add    $518.90    $467.00    42
«CODE:539K» Laminoplasty - includes strut and fixation    $1,273.15    $1,145.80    42    M
«CODE:540K» Laminoplasty - each additional level -- add -- maximum of 5    $309.90    $279.00    42    M

«L3:Posterior Decompression –  Lumbar»

«L4:Laminectomy, Laminotomy, Foraminotomy»

«CODE:546K» -- unilateral    $937.90    $844.10    42    M
«CODE:547K» -- bilateral    $1,172.40    $1,055.20    42    M
«CODE:548K» -- each additional level -- add -- maximum of 5    $270.00    $243.00    42
«CODE:549K» -- discectomy – add    $320.00    $288.00    42
«CODE:550K» Pedicle subtraction osteotomy -- above lumbar 2    $900.00    $810.00    42    M
«CODE:551K» Pedicle subtraction osteotomy -- below or at lumbar 2    $750.00    $675.00    42    M

For the purpose of fusion and instrumentation, a level is defined as 
two vertebral bodies with an intervening disc space  

Anterior fusion - cervical, thoracic, lumbar - Degenerative, tumor, 
trauma, or infective conditions

«CODE:557K» Anterior fusion -- first level fused    $528.10    $475.30    42    M
«CODE:558K» Anterior fusion -- each additional level -- add -- maximum of 4    $176.40    $158.70    42    M

Posterior fusion – cervical, thoracic, lumbar - Degenerative, tumor, 
trauma, or infective conditions

«CODE:564K» Posterior fusion -- first level fused    $469.00    $422.10    42    M
«CODE:565K» Posterior fusion -- each additional level -- add -- maximum of 5    $104.00    $93.60    42    M
«CODE:566K» Autologous bone graft harvest from distant site    $336.80    $303.10    42    M
«CODE:567K» Preparation of allograft – not including premade grafts    $254.90    $229.40    42    M

«L4:Instrumentation – anterior»

«CODE:573K» Cervical    $469.00    $422.10    42    M
«CODE:574K» Cervical -- each additional level -- add -- maximum of 3    $117.20    $105.50    42    M
«CODE:575K» Odontoid screw    $1,521.10    $1,369.00    42    H

May claim fracture decompression in addition, not fusion

«CODE:576K» Thoracic & Lumbar    $611.70    $550.50    42    H
«CODE:577K» Thoracic & Lumbar -- each additional level -- add -- maximum of 3    $102.00    $91.80    42    M

«L4:Instrumentation – posterior»

«CODE:583K» Cervical 1-2 screw fixation    $1,289.70    $1,160.70    42    M
«CODE:584K» Cervical 1-2 screw fixation -- if occiput included – add    $586.20    $527.60    42
«CODE:585K» Cervical 1-2 screw fixation -- each additional level below cervical 2, add – max of 8    $221.35    $199.15    42
«CODE:586K» Cervical 1-2 wiring    $576.00    $518.40    42    M
«CODE:587K» Cervical 1-2 wiring -- if occiput included – add    $509.80    $458.80    42
«CODE:588K» Cervical 1-2 wiring -- each additional level below C2 -- add – max of 8    $203.90    $183.50    42
«CODE:589K» Cervical 1-2 wiring -- hook or wire construct added to another procedure    $254.90    $229.40    42

«L4:Instrumentation – Below C2»

«CODE:590K» 1st level    $937.90    $844.10    42    M
«CODE:591K» -- each additional level -- add -- maximum of 8    $203.90    $183.50    42
«CODE:592K» -- each additional level beyond 8 - add -- maximum of 5    $102.00    $91.80    42
«CODE:593K» Iliac screws – add    $254.90    $229.40    42
«CODE:594K» --  crossing cervicothoracic junction – add    $203.90    $183.50    42
«CODE:600K» Instrumentation removal – anterior or posterior – per 15 minutes    $93.80    $89.40    42    M

Billable with other procedures

«L3:Fractures»

«CODE:606K» Decompression and/or reduction of fracture    $815.60    $734.00    0

a) cannot be billed with other decompression codes; 
b) instrumentation and fusion may also be billed.

«CODE:607K» Halo ring application    $458.80    $412.90    0
«CODE:608K» Closed reduction and traction    $351.70    $316.60    0
«CODE:609K» Halo Jacket    $176.40    $158.70    0
«CODE:610K» Thoracolumbar bracing -- billable only when the physician personally applies the brace    $250.00    $225.00    0

«L3:Tumour / Infection / Vascular»

«CODE:616K» Major decompression code -- add    30% of Decompression
«CODE:617K» Excision of mass without decompression    $260.00    $234.00    42    M
«CODE:618K» Excision of mass with nerve root decompression -- see posterior decompression -- add 30%    30% of Posterior Decompression
«CODE:619K» Removal intradural/extramedullary tumour -- cannot be claimed with other decompression codes    $2,050.00    $1,845.00    42    H
«CODE:620K» Removal intradural/intramedullary tumour -- cannot be claimed with other decompression codes    $2,280.00    $2,051.95    42    H
«CODE:621K» Excision of intradural vascular malformation -- cannot be claimed with other decompression codes    $1,960.00    $1,764.00    42    H
«CODE:622K» Interruption of spinal dural AV fistula -- cannot be claimed with other decompression codes    $1,455.00    $1,309.45    42    H
«CODE:623K» Percutaneous vertebral biopsy    $176.40    $158.70    42    M
«CODE:624K» Open vertebral biopsy    $300.00    $270.00    42    M

«L3:Pain»

«CODE:630K» Implantation of a single quadripolar electrode    $879.80    $791.80    42    M
«CODE:631K» -- additional quadripolar electrode - maximum of 1 additional    $351.70    $316.60    42
«CODE:632K» Implantation of a single quadripolar electrode - if surgery in same area as a previous surgery    $1,035.80    $932.20    42    M
«CODE:633K» -- additional quadripolar electrode -- if surgery in same areas as previous surgery - maximum of 1 additional electrode    $374.20    $336.70    42
«CODE:634K» Implantation of octopolar electrode    $937.90    $844.10    42    M
«CODE:635K» -- additional octopolar electrode -- maximum of 1 additional    $351.70    $316.60    42
«CODE:636K» If laminectomy required for electrode insertion –  8 contacts    $881.90    $793.70    42    M
«CODE:637K» If laminectomy required for electrode insertion –  16 contacts    $1,256.00    $1,130.40    42    M

«CODE:638K» Internalization of stimulation system -- non-rechargeable    $293.60    $264.30    42    M
«CODE:639K» Internalization of stimulation system -- rechargeable    $409.90    $368.90    42    M
«CODE:640K» Removal of stimulating electrode    $234.50    $211.00    42    M
«CODE:641K» Adjustment of stimulating electrodes    $465.90    $419.30    42    M
«CODE:642K» Programming of pump    $117.20    $105.50    42
«CODE:643K» Programming of pulse generator    $117.20    $105.50    42
«CODE:644K» Myelotomy for pain -- open or percutaneous -- cannot be claimed with other decompression codes    $1,019.50    $917.60    42    H
«CODE:645K» Pain pump implantation     $879.80    $791.80    42    M
«CODE:646K» Dorsal root entry zone lesioning or percutaneous CT guided cordotomy    $1,121.50    $1,009.30    42    H
«CODE:647K» Repair or replacement of blocked intrathecal catheter    $528.10    $475.30    42    M
«CODE:648K» Reanchoring a flipping pump    $351.70    $316.60    42    M
«CODE:649K» Replacement of pain pump    $469.00    $422.10    42    M
«CODE:650K» Removal of pain pump and catheters    $351.70    $316.60    42    M
«CODE:651K» Replacement of Pulse generator – rechargeable    $410.90    $369.80    42    M
«CODE:652K» Replacement of Pulse generator – non rechargeable     $293.60    $264.30    42    M

«L3:Miscellaneous»

«CODE:658K» Vertebroplasty    $620.30    $558.65    42    M
«CODE:659K» -- each additional level – add (maximum of 3 additional levels)    $208.80    $187.90    42
«CODE:660K» -- in addition to another spinal procedure    $230.40    $207.40    42
«CODE:661K» Kyphoplasty     $937.90    $844.10    42    M
«CODE:662K» -- each additional level – add (maximum of 1 additional level)    $586.20    $527.60    42
«CODE:663K» -- in addition to another spinal procedure    $305.90    $275.30    42
«CODE:664K» Spinal duraplasty    $287.45    $258.75    42    M
«CODE:665K» Syringosubarachnoid shunt    $917.60    $825.80    42    H
«CODE:666K» Syringopleural or syringoperitoneal shunt    $1,121.50    $1,009.30    42    H
«CODE:667K» Management of intradural congenital lesion  -- includes diastematomyelia, tethered cord, lipoma    $1,300.00    $1,170.00    42    H
«CODE:668K» Intradural rhizotomy    $1,121.50    $1,009.30    42    H
«CODE:669K» Meningocele repair    $746.30    $671.60    42    M
«CODE:670K» Myelomeningocele repair    $1,200.00    $1,080.00    42    M
«CODE:671K» Myelomeningocele repair -- if plastic surgeon performs closure    $615.00    $553.50    42    M
«CODE:677K» Acute spinal cord injury (ASIA A, B, or C less than 6 weeks)    15% of surgery
«CODE:331K» Team Spinal Surgery     45% of First Surgeons Claim

a) Where procedure requires the presence of two spine surgeons 
working in equal capacity; 
b) Not for routine assisting; and 
c) Billable by all neurosurgeons and orthopedic surgeons.

«CODE:678K» Monitoring     $350.00    $315.00    42

a) Electromyogram (EMG)  
b) Motor Evoked Potentials (MEP) 
c) Somatosensory Evoked Potentials (SSEP)

«CODE:679K» Spine surgery supplement for patients with a Body Mass Index (Weight [kg]/Height [m] 2) greater than 40     $260.00    $260.00

a) Maximum of one 679K supplement per patient per day. 
b) Supplement 679K may be billed by spine surgeons with all K   Section spine procedures done in the operating room.

«CODE:680K» Spinal stereotaxy for tumor, trauma, revision, pediatric    $640.00    $576.00    42    M
«CODE:681K» Revision surgery – add    30% of decompression
«CODE:682K» Revision surgery – add    30% of fusion

«L1:S E C T I O N L – General Surgery»

«L2:Visits»

«CODE:5L» Initial assessment -- of a specific condition includes:    $70.00*    $56.00*

a) pertinent family history; 
b) patient history,  
c) history of presenting complaint; 
d) functional enquiry; 
e) examination of affected part(s) or system(s); 
f) diagnosis; 
g) assessment; 
h) necessary treatment; 
i) advice to the patient; and, 
j) record of service provided.

«CODE:7L» Follow-up assessment -- includes:    $49.00*    $49.00*

a) history review; 
b) functional enquiry; 
c) examination; 
d) reassessment;  
e) necessary treatment; 
f) advice to the patient; and, 
g) record of service provided.

«CODE:9L» General, thoracic and vascular surgery consultation – includes:    $142.50*

a) all visits necessary; 
b) history and examination; 
c) review of laboratory and/or other data; 
d) written submission of the consultant's opinion; and,  
e) recommendations to the referring doctor.

«CODE:10L» Cardiac surgery consultation (only payable to physicians with approved training in cardiac surgery) – includes:    $187.50*

a) all visits necessary; 
b) history and examination; 
c) review of laboratory and/or other data; and, 
d) written submission of the consultant's opinion; and  
e) recommendations to the referring doctor.

«CODE:11L» Repeat consultation    $64.35*

A formal consultation for the same or related condition repeated within 90 days by the 
same physician.  Repeat consultation is only to be billed when it is generated by a new 
formal request by the referring physician. It should not be used for routine follow-up of 
the patient for which 7L "follow-up assessment" is appropriate.

*  Payment for patients 0-5 years of age and patients 65 years of age and older are 
automatically applied.

«CODE:~13L» Written advice to referring physician on the management of a case based upon review of diagnostic imaging (payable once per case only)     $32.80    $23.50

@ Payment approved for a physician with training and expertise in this section.

«L2:Hospital Care – Payable on day of admission»

Hospital care is billable by the physician responsible for inpatient care of patients admitted 
to hospital. Hospital care includes all of the routine services required to manage in hospital 
care. Additional services provided as a result of an acute episode may be payable with an 
explanation.

Post-operative hospital care is included in the surgical fee and can only be paid if hospital 
care is provided by another physician for a condition unrelated to the surgery. Upon 
transfer of hospital care to another physician, billing of hospital care should be as if there 
was a continuation of care under the same physician. An assessment or consultation may 
not be billed when hospital care is transferred to another physician.

Hospital care may be billed for short term acute care patients who are admitted to a 
health centre in the same manner as an acute care hospital. Physicians may not use 
hospital care to cover in-hospital patients who are designated as long-term care. These 
patients are to be billed under codes 627A-629A – Special Care Home Management.

«CODE:25L» -- 1-10 days -- per day -- bill units (max 10)    $39.00    $39.00
«CODE:26L» -- 11-20 days -- per day -- bill units (max 10)    $39.00    $39.00
«CODE:27L» -- 21-30 days -- per day -- bill units (max 10)    $39.00    $39.00
«CODE:28L» -- 31 days and thereafter -- per day -- bill units (max 99)    $39.00    $39.00

«L2:Virtual Care Services»

Please see Virtual Care preamble in the introductory section of the Payment Schedule for 
more information.

«CODE:807L» Virtual follow-up assessment provided via telephone or secure videoconference-- includes:    $44.10    $44.10

a) history review; 
b) functional enquiry; 
c) reassessment;  
d) necessary treatment;  
e) advice to the patient; and  
f) record of service provided.

«CODE:809L» Virtual general, thoracic and vascular surgery consultation provided via telephone or secure videoconference-- includes:    $128.25

a) all visits necessary;  
b) history; 
c) review of laboratory and/or other data; 
d) written submission of the consultant's opinion; and 
e) recommendations to the referring doctor.

«CODE:810L» Virtual cardiac surgery consultation provided via telephone or secure videoconference (only payable to physicians with approved training in cardiac surgery)- includes:    $168.75

a) all visits necessary;  
b) history; 
c) review of laboratory and/or other data; 
d) written submission of the consultant's opinion; and 
e) recommendations to the referring doctor.

«L1:S E C T I O N L – General Surgery»

«CODE:811L» Repeat virtual consultation provided via telephone or secure videoconference:     $57.95

A formal virtual consultation for the same or related condition repeated within 90 days by the same physician. Repeat virtual consultation is only to be billed when it is generated by a new formal request by the referring physician. It should not be used for routine virtual follow-up of the patient for which service code '807L' "Virtual follow-up assessment" is appropriate.

---

BLANK PAGE INTENTIONAL

---

«L2:Procedures»

Additional payments for diagnostic service excluding ECGs, 0, 10 or 42 day operative procedures performed on patients under one (1) year of age are automatically calculated and paid as explained in Section A

«L3:Head and Neck»

«CODE:30L» Maxilla -- partial resection     $626.40     $563.75
«CODE:31L» Maxilla -- total resection     $861.00     $774.05     42     M
«CODE:32L» V-excision lip -- less than 1/3     $157.75     $157.75     42     L
«CODE:33L» Mandible -- one side at ramus excision     $800.00     $720.00     42     M
«CODE:35L» Mandible -- segmental resection     $600.00     $540.00     42     M

«L3:Tongue»

Repair of laceration or excision of benign tumour of tongue

«CODE:45L» --  local anesthetic     $53.40     $53.40     10
«CODE:46L» --  under general anesthetic or IV sedation (includes post-op  recovery)     $84.10     $84.10     10     M

Frenectomy -- See 139T

«CODE:47L» Glossectomy -- partial     $400.00     $360.00     42     M
«CODE:48L» Glossectomy -- hemi     $500.00     $450.00     42     M
«CODE:49L» Glossectomy -- total     $800.00     $720.00     42     M
«CODE:50L» Excision carotid body tumor     $698.60     $628.75     42     H
«CODE:51L» Excision carotid body tumor -- with bypass or arterial graft     $834.35     $750.20     42     H
«CODE:52L» Scalenotomy     $251.80     $226.30     42     L
«CODE:53L» Scalenotomy -- with cervical rib resection     $475.35     $427.15     42     M
«CODE:54L» Brachial cyst -- excision     $444.70     $400.25     42     M
«CODE:55L» Thyroglossal cyst or sinus or brachial sinus -- excision     $528.30     $475.55     42     M
«CODE:56L» Torticollis -- tenotomy     $240.60     $216.10     42     L
«CODE:57L» Torticollis -- resection of a tumor or wide fasciectomy     $402.70     $362.40     42     L
«CODE:58L» Cystic hygroma excision     $818.10     $736.35     42     H
«CODE:59L» Excision of congenital defects, angular or midline dermoids, brachial remnants, etc     $251.80     $226.30     42     M

«L3:Salivary Glands»

«CODE:60L» Submandibular or parotid stone removal     $42.60     $42.60     10
«CODE:61L» Submandibular duct stone -- operative removal     $149.90     $149.90     10     M
«CODE:62L» Parotid duct stone -- operative removal     $288.50     $288.50     42     M
«CODE:63L» Local excision of parotid tumor and portion of gland without nerve dissection     $550.00     $495.00     42     M
«CODE:64L» Full excision of superficial lobe of parotid with nerve dissection     $1,017.10     $915.40     42     M
«CODE:65L» Total parotidectomy     $1,282.50     $1,154.25     42     M
«CODE:66L» Sublingual gland excision     $350.00     $350.00     42     L
«CODE:67L» Submandibular salivary gland excision     $420.60     $378.60     42     M

«L3:Thyroid»

«CODE:68L» Aspiration of thyroid gland     $32.60     $32.60     D
«CODE:69L» Needle biopsy of thyroid gland     $67.75     $67.75     D
«CODE:70L» Thyroidectomy -- partial -- unilateral     $778.90     $701.10     42     M
«CODE:71L» Thyroidectomy -- partial -- bilateral     $806.70     $726.05     42     M
«CODE:77L» Thyroidectomy -- total -- unilateral     $845.50     $741.40     42     M
«CODE:72L» Thyroidectomy -- total-- bilateral     $1,187.50     $1,068.75     42     M
«CODE:78L» Thyroidectomy -- recurrent     $1,200.00     $1,080.00     42     M

In instances of combined total and partial thyroidectomy, the maximum benefit paid will be at the rate of 72L for total bilateral thyroidectomy.

«L3:Parathyroid»

«CODE:75L» Parathyroidectomy -- adenoma or hyperplasia     $963.15     $866.90     42     M
«CODE:76L» Parathyroidectomy -- with mediastinal exploration     $1,004.20     $903.70     42     H
«CODE:775L» Parathyroid, reimplantation, add to 72L, 75L or 76L     $139.25     $125.30     42     H

«L3:Breast»

For augmentation or reduction mammoplasty, prosthesis and nipple surgery see items 350N to 431N.

«CODE:79L» Breast cyst aspiration -- each to a maximum of 4     $24.60     $24.60     D
«CODE:679L» Tru-cut needle biopsy of breast     $46.75     $46.75     D
«CODE:80L» Breast abscess -- single or multilocular -- general anesthetic     $199.65     $199.65     42     L
«CODE:82L» Segmental resection     $329.95     $296.90     42     L
«CODE:83L» Breast excision of tumor or biopsy     $267.30     $240.70     10     L
«CODE:86L» Excision of non-palpable breast lesion using wire localization     $457.25     $411.50     10     L
«CODE:84L» Simple mastectomy     $625.00     $562.50     42
«CODE:85L» Modified radical mastectomy     $1,194.75     $1,075.30     42     M
«CODE:87L» Radical mastectomy     $1,298.75     $1,168.80     42     M
«CODE:88L» Radical mastectomy -- with skin graft     $1,293.50     $1,164.75     42     M
«CODE:89L» Subcutaneous mastectomy with preservation of nipple & areola     $695.90     $626.20     42     L

«L3:Thorax»

«CODE:90L» Mediastinoscopy -- without biopsy     $210.85     $189.85     D     M
«CODE:689L» Mediastinoscopy -- with biopsy     $320.10     $288.10     10     M
«CODE:690L» Mediastinotomy     $132.50     $119.30     42     M
«CODE:91L» Funnel chest repair     $718.20     $646.45     42     M
«CODE:92L» Thoracotomy -- with or without biopsy - not paid in addition to thoracic surgery      $476.40     $428.70     42     H

Trans-thoracic exposure of lower cervical or thoracic spine for  neurosurgical procedure -- see section K
«CODE:93L» Thoracotomy for cardiac arrest -- referred     $389.60     $350.70     42     H
«CODE:94L» Sternal wound dehiscence, closure -- service exempt from repeat surgical rule     $208.75     $208.75     42     M
«CODE:95L» Closed drainage of chest     $185.50     $185.50     0     L
«CODE:96L» Open drainage of chest with rib resection     $250.00     $225.05     0     M
«CODE:97L» Intrapleural adhesions -- endoscopic resection     $231.40     $208.30     42     M
«CODE:98L» Poudrage of chest     $266.60     $239.95     42     M
«CODE:99L» Decortication lung     $903.30     $812.90     42     H
«CODE:100L» Lobectomy -- lung -- total or segmental     $1,020.50     $918.50     42     H
«CODE:101L» Lobectomy -- lung -- wedge resection - one     $801.30     $721.20     42     H
«CODE:103L» Lobectomy -- lung -- each additional to a maximum of 3, add     $105.00     $94.50     42     H
«CODE:600L» Sleeve lobectomy     $1,152.00     $1,036.80     42     H
«CODE:102L» Pneumonectomy     $1,116.45     $1,004.85     42     H
«CODE:602L» Sleeve pneumonectomy     $1,261.60     $1,134.85     42     H
«CODE:106L» Biopsy of lung -- open     $477.10     $429.40     42     H
«CODE:108L» Drainage lung abscess -- one stage     $488.25     $439.50     42     H
«CODE:109L» Drainage lung abscess -- two stages     $537.40     $483.85     42     H
«CODE:110L» Resection first rib     $495.60     $446.05     42     M
«CODE:111L» Thoracoplasty -- without first rib     $649.75     $584.85     42     M
«CODE:112L» Thoracoplasty -- with first rib     $669.05     $602.15     42     M
«CODE:114L» Mediastinal tumor (includes thymectomy) -- removal     $798.00     $718.50     42     H
«CODE:115L» Mediastinal tumor (includes thymectomy) -- radical excision     $1,026.60     $923.70     42     H

«L3:Heart -- Closed Operations»

«CODE:116L» Exploratory cardiotomy - not paid in addition to thoracic surgery     $519.90     $468.00     42     H

«CODE:117L» Insertion of cardiac pacemaker via thoracotomy     $473.00     $425.10     42     H

Implantation of transvenous pacemaker or AV sequential pacemaker (includes programming)

«CODE:120L» -- permanent ventricular (one lead)     $438.40     $394.50     42     L
«CODE:820L» -- permanent AV sequential (two-lead), add     $127.40     $114.70     42     L
«CODE:121L» -- temporary     $161.10     $145.00     0     L
«CODE:821L» Permanent pacemaker lead repositioning     $305.90     $275.30     42     L

Pacemaker Clinic Services -- see Section D

«CODE:122L» Replacement of pacemaker power pack -- service exempt from repeat surgical rule     $239.60     $215.60     42     L

«CODE:622L» Reinsertion or repositioning of temporary pacemaker     $60.20     $54.10     0     H

«L3:Pericardiectomy»

«CODE:123L» Full pericardiectomy     $917.60     $825.80     42     H
«CODE:623L» Partial pericardiectomy -- minimum of 20 minutes     $275.00     $247.50     42     H
«CODE:124L» Patent ductus arteriosus -- ligation or division     $615.00     $553.00     42     H
«CODE:125L» Excision/exclusion of left atrial appendage     $203.90     $183.50     42     H
«CODE:126L» Mitral valvuloplasty -- closed     $728.90     $656.60     42     H
«CODE:128L» Cardiac wound repair     $553.60     $497.50     42     H
«CODE:129L» Pericardial window     $383.30     $344.60     42     H
«CODE:130L» Operative implantation of intra-aortic balloon pump     $244.70     $220.20     0     H
«CODE:131L» Operative removal of intra-aortic balloon pump     $73.60     $66.30     0     H
«CODE:132L» Percutaneous intra-aortic balloon pump -- insertion (includes removal)     $167.20     $150.50     0     H
«CODE:135L» Thoracotomy for post-operative hemorrhage -- service exempt from repeat surgical rule     $343.60     $308.90     42     H

«L3:Procedures With Cardio-Pulmonary Bypass»

«CODE:138L» Aorto-coronary bypass with tissue stabilizing device     $546.50     $492.40     42     H
«CODE:161L» Extracorporeal bypass     $560.00     $504.00     42     H
«CODE:141L» Pulmonary embolectomy     $903.30     $813.60     42     H
«CODE:142L» ASD, secundum     $984.80     $885.90     42     H
«CODE:143L» ASD, primum     $966.00     $869.00     42     H
«CODE:145L» VSD, direct closure or patch     $924.70     $832.90     42     H
«CODE:148L» Total anomalous pulmonary venous return     $880.00     $791.90     42     H
«CODE:149L» Aortic valve replacement     $1,988.00     $1,789.20     42     H
«CODE:150L» Mitral valve replacement (100% - 1st valve;  75% - each subsequent valve)     $1,960.00     $1,763.90     42     H
«CODE:151L» Mitral valvuloplasty -- direct vision     $1,159.20     $1,042.90     42     H
«CODE:152L» Aortic valvuloplasty -- direct vision     $1,204.00     $1,083.70     42     H
«CODE:652L» Bental procedure (modified) - includes 149L, 188L, 189L(x2) & 161L     $3,313.40     $2,982.00     42     H
«CODE:653L» Amplatzer device closure of atrial septal defect (does not include angiography if required)     $847.20     $762.50     42     H
«CODE:153L» Aorta-coronary bypass graft - single     $1,600.00     $1,440.00     42     H
«CODE:154L» Aorta-coronary bypass graft - for each additional     $325.00     $293.10     42     H
«CODE:155L» Aorta-coronary bypass graft - each coronary endarterectomy, add     $267.10     $239.60     42     H
«CODE:755L» Coronary patch angioplasty greater than 3 cm in length - add (includes endarterectomy)      $387.40     $348.70
«CODE:654L» Use of internal mammary artery for bypass graft, add     $178.40     $160.60     42
«CODE:655L» Use of radial artery for bypass graft, add     $192.70     $173.45     42
«CODE:156L» Excision of ventricular aneurysm     $922.60     $830.90     42     H
«CODE:157L» Procuring heart/heart valves for transplant     $287.50     $258.70     0     M
«CODE:760L» Implantation of cardiodefribillator device (ICD) any method     $815.60     $734.00     42     H
«CODE:761L» Radiofrequency ablation of atrial fibrillation - add     $509.80     $458.80     42     H
«CODE:762L» Implantation of bi-ventricular dual chamber pacing device -- add     $305.90     $275.30     42     H

«L3:Veins»

Portacath, Infusaport, Hemo-Cath, Hickman-Broviac for  
chemotherapy or long-term TPN

«CODE:657L»     -- insertion     $265.30     $238.85     10
«CODE:658L»     -- remove and replace     $382.45     $344.20     10
«CODE:659L»     -- remove or revise, same site     $144.10     $144.10     0

«CODE:730L» Intravascular thrombolysis attendance and standby     $493.50     $444.15     10     L
«CODE:158L» Transvenous insertion of intra atrial pediatric feeding catheter     $79.20     $70.95     0     L
«CODE:160L» IV cutdown     $39.70     $39.70     0     L
«CODE:182L» Ligation or plication of iliac or inferior vena cava     $586.50     $527.90     42     H
«CODE:183L» Ligation of femoral vein     $293.80     $264.45     42     M
«CODE:162L» Venous shunt -- portocaval, splenorenal, mesocaval     $953.25     $857.90     42     H
«CODE:166L» Venous thrombectomy -- trunk     $530.00     $477.05     42     H
«CODE:459L» Venous thrombectomy -- vena cava -- tumor thrombus     $995.60     $896.05     42     H
«CODE:167L» Venous thrombectomy -- extremity - deep vein     $456.40     $410.40     42     M

«L3:Repair of Wounds*»

«CODE:175L» Major artery or vein -- trunk -- suture     $634.10     $570.90     42     H
«CODE:176L» Major artery or vein -- trunk -- graft     $1,053.10     $947.80     42     H
«CODE:177L» Major artery -- extremity or neck -- suture     $481.15     $432.95     42     M
«CODE:178L» Major artery -- extremity or neck -- graft     $742.50     $668.25     42     M
«CODE:179L» Major vein -- extremity or neck -- suture     $292.40     $263.10     42     L
«CODE:180L» Major vein -- extremity or neck -- graft     $534.95     $481.45     42     L

a) *If saphenous vein graft - add 769L.  
b) Unlisted or unusually complicated -- by report

«L3:Digital Vessel Revascularization»

Microvascular or loupe magnification revascularization of a digital vessel as part of a wound repair

«CODE:281L» Digital vessel - revascularization -- arterial     $665.00     $598.45     42     H
«CODE:282L» Digital vessel - revascularization -- arterial -- with vein graft     $765.00     $688.55     42     H
«CODE:283L» Digital vessel - revascularization -- venous     $662.70     $596.40     42     H
«CODE:284L» Digital vessel - revascularization -- venous -- with vein graft     $764.60     $688.20     42     H

a) Codes 281L to 284L only apply when provided by a recognized microvascular unit.  
b) Each individual code is payable once per anatomical site at 100%.  
c) The 75% rule will apply for amputation where all attempts to revascularize fail.

«L3:Renal»

«CODE:660L» Hemodialysis -- cutdown artery and vein     $42.60     $38.30     0
«CODE:661L» Schribner or similar shunt -- initial or repeat     $202.95     $182.80     42
«CODE:662L» A/V fistula for dialysis     $393.45     $354.10     42
«CODE:663L» Arterial venous fistula with graft -- prosthetic or venous (includes harvesting of vein)     $601.50     $541.25     42
«CODE:666L» Ligation of fistula     $226.15     $203.55     0

«L3:Peritoneal Dialysis»

«CODE:667L» Chronic dialysis catheter -- insertion     $255.55     $255.55     0
«CODE:669L» Chronic dialysis catheter -- removal     $167.95     $167.95     0
«CODE:670L» Acute dialysis catheter insertion includes first 24 hours of dialysis     $78.50     $70.30     0
«CODE:671L» Externalization of buried chronic peritoneal dialysis catheter     $134.55     $121.10     0

«L3:Arteries»

«CODE:159L» Biopsy of artery     $146.50     $146.50     10     L
«CODE:181L» Ligation of carotid artery     $265.10     $238.60     42     H
«CODE:184L» Exploration of peripheral artery     $209.45     $188.55     42     M

«L3:Bypass Graft (Occlusive Disease or Aneurysm)»

a) 769L paid in addition for harvesting of long saphenous  
b) 770L paid if in situ saphenous vein preparation
«CODE:769L» Harvesting long saphenous vein for use in peripheral vascular surgery, add     $156.00     $140.35     42
«CODE:770L» In situ saphenous vein preparation, add     $306.15     $275.55     42

Bifurcation Grafts -- Includes thromboendarterectomy and/or embolectomy

«CODE:568L» Aorto-iliac - unilateral or bilateral     $1,587.30     $1,428.50     42     H
«CODE:668L» Aorto-unifemoral     $1,513.95     $1,362.55     42     H
«CODE:768L» Aorto-bifemoral     $1,650.65     $1,485.55     42     H
«CODE:460L» Juxta-renal aorto-bifemoral     $2,158.75     $1,942.95     42     H
«CODE:461L» Ilio-femoral obturator     $1,099.00     $989.10     42     H
«CODE:191L» Ruptured aortic aneurysm (add to surgical procedure)     $326.20     $293.60     42     H

«L3:Peripheral Artery»

«CODE:169L» Femoro-popliteal     $847.90     $763.20     42     H
«CODE:462L» Femoro-tibial or peroneal     $1,111.45     $1,000.35     42     H
«CODE:463L» Femoro-pedal     $1,259.40     $1,133.45     42     H
«CODE:464L» Axillo - axillary, axillo-femoral; carotid-subclavian; cross femoral; ilio-femoral; subclavian-subclavian; other arteries of neck or extremities     $958.65     $862.85     42     H

«L3:Thoracic or Abdominal Aorta»

«CODE:188L» Aorto-carotid; aorto-axillary; aorto-coeliac; aorto-superior mesenteric; aorto-innominate; renal; thoracic or abdominal aorta     $1,361.00     $1,224.90     42     H
«CODE:189L» Reimplantation of each major branch, add     $215.15     $193.70     42     H
«CODE:174L» Intra-operative arteriogram, add     $59.05     $59.05     D

«L3:Bypass graft with thromboendarterectomy»

a) A thromboendarterectomy at site of a regular arterial bypass is included in the composite fee.  
b) However, where thromboendarterectomy of extensive atherosclerosis of profunda femoris artery is carried out in addition to aorto - uni or bifemoral graft the following should be claimed (by report)

«CODE:790L» Aorto femoral --  unilateral with thromboendarterectomy of profunda femoris     $1,946.60     $1,751.95     42     H
«CODE:791L» Aorto femoral --  bilateral with thromboendarterectomy of profunda femoris     $2,074.70     $1,867.20     42     H
«CODE:465L» Profundoplasty -- (sole procedure)     $838.85     $754.95     42     H

1. Profundoplasty up to the first major branch is included in the fee for bypass procedure.

2. If a bypass graft is accompanied by a profundoplasty extending beyond the first major branch of the profundofemoris artery, add 466L to the bypass fee.

3. If the repair extends beyond the second major branch, add 467L.

4. Payment for profundoplasty includes thromboendarterectomy.

5. Claim 465L if a profundoplasty is done alone.

«CODE:466L» Profundoplasty beyond first major branch, add     $453.40     $408.05     42     H
«CODE:467L» Profundoplasty beyond second major branch, add     $565.30     $508.75     42     H
«CODE:163L» Arteriotomy with Embolectomy -- trunk     $778.90     $701.10     42     M
«CODE:164L» Arteriotomy with Embolectomy -- neck     $602.25     $541.65     42     H
«CODE:165L» Arteriotomy with Embolectomy -- extremity     $592.70     $533.40     42     M
«CODE:468L» Arteriotomy with Embolectomy -- visceral     $952.15     $856.90     42     H

«L3:Thromboendarterectomy (Independent Procedure)»

«CODE:469L» Femoral --unilateral     $892.65     $803.45     42     M
«CODE:470L» Iliac; carotid; renal; subclavian; superior mesenteric; vertebral     $997.15     $897.45     42     H
«CODE:471L» Aorta innominate     $1,423.05     $1,280.75     42     H
«CODE:472L» Aorto-iliac -- unilateral or bilateral; aorto ilio-femoral – unilateral     $1,359.00     $1,222.40     42     H
«CODE:473L» Aorto ilio-femoral -- bilateral     $1,709.05     $1,538.15     42     H
«CODE:474L» Carotid endarterectomy with patch angioplasty greater than 3 cm - add     $402.40     $362.10     42     H
«CODE:920L» Vascular Re-do Procedure -- add to 163L, 164L, 165L, 169L, 188L, 460L, 461L, 462L, 463L, 464L, 465L, 468L, 469L, 470L, 471L, 472L, 473L, 568L, 668L, 768L, 790L, 791L     $226.15     $203.55     42     H
«CODE:192L» Excision AV fistula -- extremity     $510.30     $458.70     42     L
«CODE:193L» Excision AV fistula -- trunk     $893.75     $804.10     42     M

«L3:Varicose Veins»

«CODE:200L» Saphenous axis -- section and ligation -- unilateral     $236.30     $236.30     42     L
«CODE:201L» Saphenous axis -- section and ligation -- bilateral     $445.15     $445.15     42     L

Ligation of multiple veins, with or without long saphenous stripping, with saphenous axis ligation

«CODE:209L»   -- unilateral     $436.20     $436.20     42     L
«CODE:210L»   -- bilateral     $809.50     $809.50     42     L
«CODE:211L» Multiple ligation of all veins (unilateral or bilateral) done in a session -- each -- maximum - 10 veins     $40.80     $36.70     10     L

«CODE:212L» Endovenous Laser Therapy  
1. Excludes transcutaneous laser treatment of spider veins 
2. Payment will only be made for services provided in hospital (including outpatient setting) for treatment of major varicosities of the lesser and greater saphenous systems, which could otherwise require surgical stripping     $442.10     $397.95     42

Ligation and dissection short saphenous vein at saphenopopliteal junction

«CODE:213L»   -- unilateral     $198.90     $198.90     42     L
«CODE:214L»   -- bilateral     $292.70     $292.70     42     L
«CODE:215L» Subfascial ligation of one incompetent communicating vein     $42.80     $42.80     0     L
«CODE:216L» Follow-up operation to 209L or 210L -- unilateral     $165.00     $165.00     42     L
«CODE:217L» Subfascial ligation -- complete (Linton)     $481.60     $434.10     42     L

Injection of spider veins is uninsured

«CODE:218L» Injection of symptomatic varicose veins -- first vein     $24.05     $24.05     0     L
«CODE:618L» Injection of symptomatic varicose veins -- each additional vein (one leg maximum 15, both legs max 25)     $17.85     $17.85     0     L
«CODE:219L» Stripping and ligation of short saphenous vein     $334.20     $334.20     42     L

«L3:Abdomen»

Transabdominal exposure of lumbar and lower thoracic spine for  neurosurgical procedure -- see section K.
«CODE:220L» Laparotomy --  diagnostic - including removal of foreign body, such as IUCD,  not paid in addition to abdominal surgery     $530.65     $530.65     42     M
«CODE:531L» Laparotomy --  extended - including gland and liver biopsies     $766.50     $689.85     42     M
«CODE:532L» Laparotomy --  staged - for Hodgkins Disease - including biopsies and splenectomy     $1,656.40               42     H
«CODE:533L» Laparotomy --  for acute trauma - by report     $785.75     $707.15     42     M
«CODE:534L» Laparotomy --  with repair of bowel -- single, add     $283.15     $254.80     42     M
«CODE:535L» Laparotomy --  with repair of bowel -- multiple and/or resection, add     $448.70     $403.90     42     M
«CODE:536L» Laparotomy --  with splenectomy or repair, add     $489.50     $440.60     42     H
«CODE:537L» Laparotomy --  with lacerated liver, add     $403.70     $363.35     42     H
«CODE:538L» Laparotomy --  with repair of diaphragm, add     $240.90     $216.70     42     M
«CODE:539L» Laparotomy --  insertion of tubes and post-operative continuous peritoneal lavage, add     $184.35     $165.95     42     M

Looking at these 10 pages of the Saskatchewan Payment Schedule for Section L - General Surgery, I'll apply the tagging convention according to the instructions:

--- Page 221 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 221
 
 
«L1:S E C T I O N  L – General Surgery»  
Specialist 
General 
Practitioner 
Class 
Anes 
«CODE:221L» 
Staging and/or diagnostic peritoneoscopy -- with or without biopsy 
$221.00 
$198.80 
D 
M 
 
1. Peritoneoscopy is not payable with laparoscopic surgery unless it 
precedes the surgery as a diagnostic and/or staging procedure. 
 
 
 
 
 
2. Diagnostic peritoneoscopies are billable when the diagnosis or 
condition is uncertain or unknown. 
 
 
 
 
 
3. Staging peritoneoscopies are billable for the diagnosis/staging of 
malignancies to determine extent of disease and treatment 
options (i.e.: gastric, pancreatic, and peritoneal). 
 
 
 
 
 
4. Claim should not be submitted by report (manually) unless 
requested by MSB. 
 
 
 
 
 
5. Claim must indicate whether the service was for diagnostic or 
staging purposes. 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:222L» 
Abdominal wound dehiscence –  exempt from repeat surgical rule 
$306.40 
$306.40 
42 
M 
«CODE:224L» 
Sub-phrenic abscess -- incision and drainage  
− 
When performed as an independent procedure. 
− 
Not billable in addition to other abdominal surgery. 
 
$799.70 
$719.75 
42 
M 
«CODE:225L» 
Abdominal or pelvic abscess -- incision and drainage 
$481.60 
$481.60 
42 
M 
«CODE:226L» 
Transrectal drainage of pelvic abscess 
$240.90 
$240.90 
42 
L 
«CODE:227L» 
Incision and drainage of supra-levator, pelvi-rectal or retro-rectal 
abscess 
$297.35 
$267.65 
42 
L 
«CODE:228L» 
Incision and drainage of ischio-rectal abscess 
$265.65 
$265.65 
42 
L 
«CODE:229L» 
Incision and drainage of perianal abscess 
$195.60 
$195.60 
10 
L 
«CODE:232L» 
Debulking of intra-thoracic or intra-abdominal tumor when primary 
procedure 
$545.15 
$490.65 
42 
H 
«CODE:233L» 
Intraoperative Surgical Intervention 
$325.80 
$293.25 
42 
M 
 
1. To be paid to the surgeon when they are called in by the 
primary surgeon during the course of the operation and 
performs a surgical procedure for which there is no listed fee 
(e.g., adhesiolysis).  
 
 
2. This service is paid as a flat fee.  
 
 
3. Consultation is not paid in addition.  
 
 
4. If the surgeon does not have to carry out any procedure and 
only provides advice, a consultation alone is the proper claim. 
 
 
«L2:Hernia Repairs» 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:240L» 
Diaphragmatic hernia 
$897.70 
$807.95 
42 
M 
«CODE:241L» 
Fundoplication and/or hiatus hernia repair 
$881.85 
$793.70 
42 
M 
«CODE:248L» 
Esophagogastric fundoplasty (Nissen) with gastroplasty (Collis) 
$1,320.00 
$1,188.00 
42 
H 
«CODE:242L» 
Epigastric hernia 
$363.00 
$363.00 
42 
L 
«CODE:243L» 
Reduction of hernia 
$36.95 
$36.95 
0 
L 
«CODE:244L» 
Reduction of hernia -- with Anesthetic 
$51.90 
$51.90 
0 
L 
«CODE:245L» 
Incisional ventral hernia 
$630.95 
$630.95 
42 
L 


--- Page 222 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 222
 
 
S E C T I O N  L – General Surgery  
Specialist 
General 
Practitioner 
Class 
Anes 
«CODE:246L» 
Complex incisional hernia with inlay mesh (retrorectus or 
intraperitoneal) 
$1,156.25 
$1,040.55 
42 
H 
 
1.  Billable when hernia is repaired with Inlay mesh AND 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Two (2) of the following 3 components are present: 
 
 
 
 
 
a) Component separation; or 
 
 
 
 
 
b) Hernia width is more than 8 cm on preoperative CT; or 
 
 
 
 
 
c) Multiple fascial defects are seen on preoperative CT; AND 
 
 
 
 
 
3. Surgery is a minimum duration of 2.5 hours. 
 
 
 
 
 
4. Physician must indicate on the electronic claim which 2 
components are present and the total duration of time. Do not 
send manually "by report" unless requested by MSB. Physician 
may state "component 2 a) and c)" etc, if there is not enough 
room on the comment line. 
 
 
 
 
 
5. If all billing criteria are not met, the code will be converted to 
"incisional ventral hernia" (245L). 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:247L» 
Paraesophageal hernia repair 
$1,151.15 
$1,036.05 
42 
H 
 
«L3:Umbilical Hernia» 
 
 
 
 
 
Not paid in addition to other laparoscopic abdominal surgery 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:251L» 
Umbilical hernia -- child 
$387.75 
$387.75 
42 
L 
«CODE:252L» 
Umbilical hernia -- adult 
$418.20 
$418.20 
42 
L 
«CODE:253L» 
Umbilical hernia -- incarcerated or recurrent, child or adult 
$546.15 
$491.60 
42 
M 
«CODE:255L» 
Omphalocele -- one stage 
$427.25 
$384.65 
42 
H 
«CODE:256L» 
Omphalocele -- staged -- each stage 
$464.65 
$418.25 
42 
H 
«CODE:258L» 
Patent urachus -- includes excision of urachal cyst or sinus 
$397.70 
$358.00 
42 
M 
«CODE:260L» 
Inguinal or femoral herniorrhaphy 
$469.15 
$469.15 
42 
L 
«CODE:261L» 
Inguinal or femoral herniorrhaphy -- incarcerated, strangulated or 
recurrent 
$548.35 
$493.45 
42 
M 
 
Herniotomy with orchidopexy, only the larger fee is paid 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:262L» 
Simple herniotomy -- unilateral 
$420.10 
$420.10 
42 
L 
«CODE:263L» 
Simple herniotomy -- bilateral -- includes unilateral herniotomy with 
negative contralateral exploration, open or by laparoscopy 
$573.20 
$573.20 
42 
L 
«CODE:264L» 
Spigelian hernia 
$510.60 
$459.60 
42 
L 
«CODE:265L» 
Lumbar hernia 
$514.80 
$463.30 
42 
L 
«CODE:266L» 
Obturator hernia 
$510.95 
$459.85 
42 
L 
«CODE:267L» 
Patent vitello-intestinal duct or excision Meckel's diverticulum -- 
includes excision of omphalomesenteric duct fistula, cyst or   sinus 
$609.95 
$549.00 
42 
M 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«L2:Biliary Tract» 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:271L» 
Cholecystostomy 
$481.60 
$433.45 
42 
M 
«CODE:272L» 
Choledochostomy  with or without 
cholecystectomy/choledochoscopy 
$930.50 
$837.45 
42 
M 
«CODE:273L» 
Cholecysto-enterostomy 
$691.90 
$622.70 
42 
M 


--- Page 223 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 223
 
S E C T I O N  L – General Surgery  
Specialist 
General 
Practitioner 
Class 
Anes 
«CODE:274L» 
Choledocho-enterostomy or transduodenal sphincterotomy 
$946.20 
$851.60 
42 
M 
«CODE:674L» 
Choledochojejunostomy with Roux-en-Y 
$1,418.30 
 
42 
M 
«CODE:275L» 
Repair stricture common bile duct 
$1,598.50 
$1,438.55 
42 
M 
«CODE:276L» 
Cholecystectomy -- without operative cholangiography 
$709.20 
$638.25 
42 
M 
«CODE:277L» 
Cholecystectomy -- with cholangiogram 
$793.15 
$713.85 
42 
M 
«CODE:278L» 
Biliary atresia -- exploration with cholangiogram  
  -- not paid with portoenterostomy  
  -- with liver biopsy add 416L at 75% 
$713.25 
$642.60 
42 
M 
«CODE:279L» 
Hepatico-enterostomy -- includes portoenterostomy (Kasai 
procedure) for biliary atresia 
$2,030.05 
$1,827.05 
42 
H 
 
«L2:Esophagus and Stomach» 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:292L» 
Esophagomyotomy (Heller) 
$1,117.05 
$1,005.30 
42 
H 
«CODE:293L» 
Congenital tracheo-esophageal fistula  
$1,113.65 
$1,002.20 
42 
H 
 
-- 
with or without esophageal atresia repair 
 
 
 
 
 
-- 
includes esophageal atresia repair without TEF and cervical 
repair of congenital TEF 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:294L» 
Esophageal diverticulum -- transthoracic repair 
$757.00 
$681.25 
42 
H 
«CODE:295L» 
Pharyngo-oesophageal diverticulum -- repair 
$652.65 
$587.40 
42 
M 
«CODE:296L» 
Ruptured oesophagus -- transthoracic repair 
$722.25 
$650.00 
42 
H 
«CODE:297L» 
Ruptured oesophagus -- transcervical repair 
$517.00 
$465.30 
42 
M 
«CODE:298L» 
Esophagogastrostomy or esophagojejunostomy 
$1,112.45 
$1,001.20 
42 
M 
«CODE:299L» 
Esophagectomy or esophagogastrectomy -- with or without 
pyloroplasty 
$1,591.35 
$1,432.20 
42 
H 
«CODE:320L» 
Esophagectomy or esophagogastrectomy -- with replacement 
$1,985.15 
$1,786.65 
42 
H 
«CODE:300L» 
Total esophagectomy with cervical fistula and gastrostomy 
$1,118.05 
$1,005.95 
42 
H 
«CODE:301L» 
Replacement of oesophagus by transplant 
$1,257.00 
$1,131.60 
42 
H 
«CODE:302L» 
Vagotomy -- truncal or selective -- abdominal or thoracic 
$642.60 
$578.40 
42 
H 
«CODE:321L» 
Highly selective vagotomy -- with or without pyloroplasty 
$796.20 
$716.65 
42 
M 
«CODE:303L» 
Gastrectomy -- with or without splenectomy -- partial 
$1,099.00 
$989.10 
42 
H 
«CODE:304L» 
Gastrectomy -- with or without splenectomy -- partial with vagotomy 
$1,117.05 
$1,005.30 
42 
H 
«CODE:305L» 
Gastrectomy -- with or without splenectomy -- total 
$1,767.15 
$1,590.40 
42 
H 
«CODE:306L» 
Pyloroplasty 
$581.70 
$523.60 
42 
M 
«CODE:607L» 
Pyloroplasty -- with oversewing of bleeding ulcer, add 
$153.30 
$137.95 
42 
M 
«CODE:308L» 
Gastro-enterostomy 
$628.55 
$565.80 
42 
M 
«CODE:309L» 
Gastro-enterostomy -- with vagotomy 
$882.55 
$794.30 
42 
M 
«CODE:310L» 
Gastrotomy -- with or without removal of foreign body or tumor 
$521.30 
$469.15 
42 
M 
«CODE:311L» 
Gastrostomy -- simple 
$500.70 
$450.60 
42 
M 
«CODE:312L» 
Gastrostomy -- with living tube 
$647.90 
$583.10 
42 
M 
«CODE:313L» 
Decompression gastrostomy -- in conjunction with other abdominal 
surgery, add 
$110.00 
$110.00 
42 
M 
«CODE:314L» 
Rammstedt pyloromyotomy 
$539.35 
$485.45 
42 
M 
«CODE:315L» 
Perforated ulcer -- repair 
$657.10 
$657.10 
42 
M 


--- Page 224 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 224
 
 
S E C T I O N  L – General Surgery  
Specialist 
General 
Practitioner 
Class 
Anes 
«CODE:317L» 
Resection of anastomotic ulcer 
$1,183.70 
$1,065.40 
42 
M 
«CODE:318L» 
Repair duodenal tear 
$647.90 
$583.10 
42 
M 
«CODE:319L» 
Traumatic duodenal fistula 
$894.30 
$804.90 
42 
M 
«CODE:327L» 
Laparoscopic Roux-en-Y bypass 
$1,645.75 
$1,456.95 
42 
H 
«CODE:328L» 
Laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy 
$1,079.20 
$971.30 
42 
H 
 
«L2:Small Bowel» 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:330L» 
Perforated small bowel repair 
$687.40 
$687.40 
42 
M 
«CODE:331L» 
Small bowel obstruction -- without resection 
$705.45 
$705.45 
42 
M 
«CODE:332L» 
Small bowel resection 
$881.85 
$793.70 
42 
M 
«CODE:333L» 
Appendectomy -- not paid in addition to abdominal surgery, except 
where clinically indicated and billed by report 
$481.05 
$481.05 
42 
M 
«CODE:334L» 
Entero-enterostomy 
$837.75 
$754.05 
42 
M 
«CODE:335L» 
Enterotomy for foreign body or tumor 
$674.85 
$607.40 
42 
M 
«CODE:336L» 
Ileostomy revision – minor,  service exempt from repeat surgical rule 
$426.90 
$384.25 
42 
L 
«CODE:337L» 
Ileostomy revision – major,  service exempt from repeat surgical rule 
$563.10 
$506.75 
42 
M 
«CODE:338L» 
Feeding jejunostomy 
$564.20 
$507.85 
42 
M 
«CODE:638L» 
Tube jejunostomy when performed with other surgery 
$281.60 
$253.45 
42 
 
«CODE:339L» 
Continent ileostomy (Koch's) -- independent procedure 
$1,341.95 
$1,207.80 
42 
M 
«CODE:340L» 
Enterostomy or cecostomy,  service exempt from repeat surgical rule 
$617.00 
$617.00 
42 
M 
«CODE:639L» 
Closure of loop or double barrelled ileostomy,  service exempt from 
repeat surgical rule 
$595.75 
$536.10 
42 
M 
 
«L3:Bowel Obstruction - Infant -- excluding intussusception» 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:631L» 
-- 
without resection - includes Ladd's procedure for malrotation 
and/or correction of volvulus 
$748.00 
$672.85 
42 
M 
«CODE:632L» 
-- 
with resection - includes duodenal, atresia repair, repair of 
jejunoileal  atresia (single atresia) 
$977.90 
$880.35 
42 
M 
 
«L2:Large Bowel, Rectum and Anus» 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:342L» 
Colectomy -- hemi or segmental 
$1,190.25 
$1,071.30 
42 
H 
«CODE:442L» 
Hartmann's procedure 
$1,144.10 
$1,029.75 
42 
H 
«CODE:343L» 
Total colectomy with or without ileostomy 
$1,493.95 
$1,344.65 
42 
H 
«CODE:344L» 
Total colectomy and proctectomy 
$2,232.90 
$2,009.65 
42 
H 
«CODE:644L» 
Continent ileostomy (Koch's) -- with 343L or 344L, add 
$642.20 
$578.00 
42 
H 
«CODE:645L» 
Total colectomy with mucosal proctectomy and ileo-pouch with ileo-
anal anastomosis and loop ileostomy 
$2,612.70 
$2,351.35 
42 
M 
«CODE:345L» 
Ileorectal anastomosis 
$936.10 
$842.45 
42 
M 
«CODE:346L» 
Proctectomy 
$642.60 
$578.40 
42 
M 
«CODE:347L» 
Colostomy -- service exempt from repeat surgical rule 
$649.90 
$584.80 
42 
M 
«CODE:348L» 
Closure of loop or double barrelled colostomy  -- service exempt 
from repeat surgical rule 
$649.90 
$584.80 
42 
M 
«CODE:548L» 
Colonic reanastomosis following Hartmann's procedure 
$1,144.10 
$1,029.75 
42 
M 


--- Page 225 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 225
 
 
S E C T I O N  L – General Surgery  
Specialist 
General 
Practitioner 
Class 
Anes 
«CODE:349L» 
Colostomy revision – minor, service exempt from repeat surgical rule 
$364.85 
$328.40 
42 
L 
«CODE:350L» 
Colostomy revision – major, service exempt from repeat surgical rule 
$492.90 
$443.70 
42 
M 
«CODE:365L» 
Massive rectal prolapse -- perineal repair 
$614.30 
$552.85 
42 
L 
«CODE:366L» 
Massive rectal prolapse -- abdominal repair 
$874.45 
$786.95 
42 
M 
«CODE:367L» 
Massive rectal prolapse -- with sigmoid resection 
$1,102.55 
$992.35 
42 
H 
«CODE:368L» 
Massive rectal prolapse -- abdominal-perineal repair 
$1,246.70 
$1,122.00 
42 
M 
«CODE:369L» 
Insertion of ring or wire for rectal prolapse 
$334.20 
$300.75 
42 
L 
«CODE:373L» 
Closure of rectovesical or rectourethral fistula 
$771.10 
$694.05 
42 
M 
«CODE:374L» 
Closure of rectovesical or rectourethral fistula with colostomy 
$846.65 
$762.10 
42 
M 
«CODE:377L» 
Banding of hemorrhoids -- each -- maximum 3 
$49.30 
$49.30 
10 
L 
«CODE:378L» 
Hemorrhoid -- injection 
$25.75 
$25.75 
0 
L 
«CODE:379L» 
Hemorrhoid -- incision or excision external thrombosed 
$72.45 
$72.45 
10 
L 
«CODE:380L» 
Polyp -- anal -- excision 
$121.00 
$121.00 
10 
L 
«CODE:381L» 
Hemorrhoidectomy 
$405.40 
$405.40 
42 
L 
«CODE:383L» 
Low imperforate anus repair 
$688.60 
$619.70 
42 
M 
«CODE:384L» 
High imperforate anus repair - by any method includes division of 
vaginal, urethral or bladder fistula 
$965.60 
$869.45 
42 
M 
«CODE:386L» 
Rectal polyp or tumor -- excision or fulguration -- under anesthetic 
$157.70 
$157.70 
42 
L 
«CODE:387L» 
Transanal excision of giant villous adenoma of rectum 
$519.00 
$467.05 
42 
M 
«CODE:388L» 
Deep transrectal or perirectal biopsy for Hirschsprung's disease  
$141.35 
$127.15 
10 
L 
«CODE:~371L» 
Transanal endoscopic microsurgery (TEM), resection of rectal tumor 
$938.30 
$844.45 
42 
M 
 
@ Entitlement to bill 371L is limited to physicians with advanced fellowship training in 
colorectal surgery or surgical oncology, as approved by the Saskatchewan Medical 
Association Tariff Committee.   
 
For the purposes of billing, 371L is billable on the date that the approval is granted to the 
physician. See "Services Billable by Entitlement". 
 
 
«CODE:389L» 
Excision sacro-coccygeal teratoma 
$801.55 
$721.40 
42 
M 
«CODE:391L» 
Pilonidal -- cyst or sinus -- excision or marsupialization 
$427.35 
$427.35 
42 
L 
«CODE:394L» 
Major anal sphincter repair for stricture or incontinence 
$590.00 
$531.00 
42 
M 
«CODE:396L» 
Fissure-in-ano -- incision or excision and/or subcutaneous 
sphincterotomy 
$272.80 
$272.80 
42 
L 
«CODE:397L» 
Fistula-in-ano -- excision -- superficial 
$334.55 
$334.55 
42 
L 
«CODE:398L» 
Fistula-in-ano -- excision -- deep involving sphincter 
$549.15 
$549.15 
42 
L 
«CODE:399L» 
Fistula-in-ano -- excision -- high 
$659.70 
$593.70 
42 
L 
«CODE:562L» 
Fissure/fistula-in-ano -- cleansed and obliterated with Tiseel 
$233.95 
$233.95 
10 
L 
«CODE:400L» 
Anal dilatation - manual or by balloon  
a) Under anesthetic or IV sedation; 
b) Includes post-op recovery; and 
c) Not to be billed with other anorectal surgery such as 
hemorrhoidectomy,  fissure codes etc. 
 
Includes any type of pull-through procedure for Hirschsprung's 
disease. 
$59.25 
$59.25 
0 
L 
 
 
 
 


--- Page 226 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 226
 
  
S E C T I O N L – General Surgery  
Specialist 
General 
Practitioner 
Class 
Anes 
«CODE:352L» 
Abdomino-perineal resection -- one team -- surgeon 
$1,862.30 
$1,676.10 
42 
H 
«CODE:353L» 
Abdomino-perineal resection -- two team -- abdominal surgeon 
$1,662.50 
$1,496.30 
42 
H 
«CODE:354L» 
Abdomino-perineal resection -- two team -- perineal surgeon 
$633.95 
$570.55 
42 
H 
«CODE:355L» 
Proctosigmoidectomy 
$1,359.20 
$1,223.30 
42 
H 
«CODE:356L» 
Colotomy -- for foreign body 
$732.60 
$659.40 
42 
M 
«CODE:357L» 
Colotomy -- for tumor 
$805.00 
$724.45 
42 
M 
«CODE:358L» 
Anterior resection -- without total mesorectal excision 
$1,375.75 
$1,238.15 
42 
H 
«CODE:359L» 
Posterior resection 
$1,209.10 
$1,088.20 
42 
H 
«CODE:370L» 
Low anterior resection –  with total mesorectal excision (TME)  
$1,736.50 
$1,562.85 
42 
H 
 
«L2:Liver, Spleen, Adrenals»  
 
 
 
 
«CODE:413L» 
Liver -- rupture -- repair 
$828.65 
$745.75 
42 
H 
«CODE:414L» 
Liver -- abscess -- incision and drainage 
$749.90 
$674.90 
42 
M 
«CODE:415L» 
Liver -- needle biopsy 
$103.20 
$92.90 
D 
L 
«CODE:416L» 
Liver -- open biopsy 
$533.00 
$479.70 
42 
M 
«CODE:417L» 
Liver -- hemi-hepatectomy 
$2,030.05 
$1,827.05 
42 
H 
«CODE:418L» 
Liver -- segment hepatectomy 
$1,116.10 
$1,004.60 
42 
H 
 
«L3:Pancreas / Spleen» 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:419L» 
Pancreatectomy -- partial 
$1,103.90 
$993.40 
42 
H 
«CODE:420L» 
Pancreatectomy -- partial with duodenectomy or total with or 
without  duodenectomy 
$3,300.00 
$2,970.00 
42 
H 
«CODE:421L» 
Pancreatic pseudocyst marsupialization or adenoma excision 
$1,081.10 
$972.95 
42 
M 
«CODE:620L» 
Pancreatic abscess drainage 
$788.15 
$709.25 
42 
M 
«CODE:621L» 
Pancreatico-enterostomy with Roux-en-Y 
$1,545.40 
$1,390.85 
42 
M 
«CODE:422L» 
Splenectomy -- abdominal or repair 
$881.85 
$793.70 
42 
M 
«CODE:423L» 
Splenectomy -- thoraco-abdominal 
$874.70 
$787.25 
42 
M 
«CODE:426L» 
Adrenalectomy -- unilateral 
$980.55 
$882.55 
42 
H 
«CODE:428L» 
Extra-adrenal phacochromocytoma or other retroperitoneal tumor 
$1,299.60 
$1,169.65 
42 
H 
 
«L2:Lymph Nodes» 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:430L» 
Biopsy -- superficial node 
$198.00 
$198.00 
10 
L 
«CODE:431L» 
Biopsy -- deep node -- beneath deep fascia 
$400.00 
$400.00 
10 
L 
«CODE:432L» 
Biopsy -- scalene node 
$234.85 
$211.35 
10 
L 
«CODE:433L» 
Biopsy -- mediastinal 
$303.80 
$273.40 
10 
M 
«CODE:434L» 
Suprahyoid block dissection 
$700.00 
$630.05 
42 
M 
«CODE:635L» 
Sentinel lymph node biopsy -- with malignant melanoma and breast 
cancer surgery 
$573.20 
$515.90 
42 
M 
«CODE:73L» 
Central neck dissection -- thyroid cancer – add to 72L 
$350.00 
$314.90 
42 
M 


--- Page 227 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 227
 
  
S E C T I O N L – General Surgery  
Specialist 
General 
Practitioner 
Class 
Anes 
«CODE:435L» 
Complete block dissection -- neck 
$1,200.00 
$1,080.05 
42 
H 
«CODE:436L» 
Complete block dissection -- axilla 
$825.00 
$742.50 
42 
M 
«CODE:437L» 
Complete block dissection -- groin-wide inguinal 
$911.40 
$820.30 
42 
M 
«CODE:438L» 
Complete block dissection -- groin-deep with common iliac dissection 
$1,280.15 
$1,152.20 
42 
M 
«CODE:439L» 
Complete block dissection -- retroperitoneal including pelvic, aortic 
and renal 
$1,499.15 
$1,349.30 
42 
H 
«CODE:440L» 
Scalene fat pad dissection 
$369.50 
$332.50 
42 
L 
 
«L2:Integumentary System» 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:840L» 
Biopsy of palpable superficial lesion -- unless otherwise listed  -- by 
fine needle biopsy or aspiration 
$23.20 
$23.20 
D 
L 
«CODE:841L» 
Biopsy of palpable superficial lesion -- unless otherwise listed  -- by 
core needle biopsy 
$45.55 
$45.55 
D 
L 
«CODE:849L» 
Integumentary system - aspiration of hematoma or cyst 
$24.70 
$24.70 
0 
L 
«CODE:850L» 
Integumentary system - incision and drainage of abscess, etc. 
$60.90 
$60.90 
10 
L 
«CODE:851L» 
Integumentary system - abscess -- multilocular 
$72.05 
$72.05 
10 
L 
«CODE:852L» 
Carbuncle, deep (beneath deep fascia) or pilonidal cyst abscess -- 
unroofing under general anesthetic 
$102.95 
$102.95 
10 
L 
«CODE:853L» 
Intramuscular abscess 
By Report 
10 
L 
«CODE:854L» 
Muscle biopsy (general practitioners – billable "by report" only) 
$131.25 
$131.25 
10 
L 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ablation of actinic keratosis, pyogenic granuloma, keratoacanthoma, 
or bleeding lesions by electrocautery, chemical cautery, cryotherapy, 
laser and/or curettage. 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:603L» 
  -- 1st lesion 
$27.05 
$27.05 
10 
L 
«CODE:604L» 
  -- 2nd to 7th lesion -- each -- max 6 units 
$9.90 
$9.90 
10 
L 
«CODE:605L» 
  -- 8th lesion and over, each 
$3.80 
$3.80 
10 
L 
 
Ablation of seborrheic keratoses, molluscum contagiosum, skin tags 
and warts are uninsured. 
 
 
 
 
 
Laser ablation of actinic keratosis, pyogenic granuloma, 
keratoacanthoma, plantar warts, or bleeding lesions under local 
anesthesia -- laser owned by physician 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:610L» 
  -- first 15 minute session 
$71.90 
$71.90 
10 
L 
«CODE:611L» 
  -- each subsequent 15 minutes (max of 2 additional units), add - bill 
units 
$36.00 
$36.00 
10 
L 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pulsed dye tuned laser ablation of facial port wine stains is insured 
under the age of 18. Pre-authorization required for other 
symptomatic or bleeding cutaneous angiomata 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:780L» 
Professional - laser owned by physician, per 15 minute session or 
major part thereof  
$47.25 
$47.25 
0 
L 
«CODE:781L» 
-- for each unit used (i.e. 5 pulses), add -- bill units 
$7.50 
$7.50 
0 
L 
 
(Note: Billings also to be made in units; 1 unit = 5 pulses) 
 
 
 
 


--- Page 228 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 228
 
 
S E C T I O N L – General Surgery  
Specialist 
General 
Practitioner 
Class 
Anes 
 
«L3:Lesion removal by surgical excision with suture closure» 
 
 
 
 
 
The various diameter categories below relate to the size of the lesion, 
not the size of the excision. 
 
 
 
 
 
These codes are intended for removal of any lesion type (i.e.: 
malignant/non-malignant) where a wide excision has not been 
carried out. If the pathology report returns with a malignant 
diagnosis, but a wide excision was not carried out at the time the 
lesion was excised, it cannot be converted to codes 684N/685N. 
 
 
 
 
 
«L4:Under 1 cm. diameter -- any area» 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:857L» 
     -- 1st lesion 
$66.50 
$66.50 
10 
L 
«CODE:858L» 
     -- 2nd to 7th -- each -- max 6 units 
$30.50 
$30.50 
10 
L 
«CODE:859L» 
     -- 8th and over, each 
$19.80 
$19.80 
10 
L 
 
«L4:Over 1 cm. diameter -- face, palm of hand or fingers, sole of foot or toes» 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:860L» 
     -- 1st lesion 
$92.70 
$92.70 
10 
L 
«CODE:861L» 
     -- 2nd to 7th -- each -- max 6 units  
$45.85 
$45.85 
10 
L 
«CODE:862L» 
     -- 8th and over, each 
$28.85 
$28.85 
10 
L 
 
«L4:Over 1 cm. diameter -- other areas, including scalp» 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:863L» 
     -- 1st lesion 
$72.30 
$72.30 
10 
L 
«CODE:864L» 
     -- 2nd to 7th -- each -- max 6 units 
$31.60 
$31.60 
10 
L 
«CODE:865L» 
     -- 8th and over, each 
$20.00 
$20.00 
10 
L 
«CODE:866L» 
Sebaceous cyst or intradermal cyst (any area)  -- excision and suture 
closure 
$75.80 
$75.80 
10 
L 
 
«L3:Lipoma or subcutaneous tumor» 
 
 
 
 
 
1. Lipomas etc. are insured only when medically necessary (i.e. initial 
biopsy and / or causing symptoms in functional area)  
 
 
 
 
 
2. Maximum 4 services 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:867L» 
Lipoma or subcutaneous tumor  -- excision -- up to 5 cm. 
$79.10 
$79.10 
10 
L 
«CODE:868L» 
Lipoma or subcutaneous tumor  -- excision -- over 5 cm. up to 10 cm. 
$137.20 
$137.20 
42 
L 
«CODE:869L» 
Lipoma or subcutaneous tumor  -- excision -- larger than 10 cm. 
$281.60 
$281.60 
42 
L 
«CODE:870L» 
Lipoma or other benign tumor beneath deep fascia 
$435.00 
$391.50 
42 
L 
«CODE:871L» 
Malignant tumor 
By Report 
42 
M 
«CODE:~971L» 
Resection of sarcoma (non-retroperitoneal) 
By Report 
42 
M 
 
@ Entitlement to bill 971L is limited to physicians with advanced 
 
fellowship training in surgical oncology or other proof of 
 
expertise in surgical oncology as approved by the Saskatchewan 
 
Medical Association Tariff Committee.  
 
 
For the purposes of billing, 971L is billable on the date that the 
 
approval is granted to the physician.  See "Services Billable by 
 
Entitlement". 
 
 
 
 
1. Physician must indicate on the electronic claim the total duration 
of time spent performing the resection. 
2. Do not send the operative report manually unless requested by 
MSB.  
 
 
 
 
3. Fee will be applied by MSB based on total duration of time.   
 
 
 


--- Page 229 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 229
 
S E C T I O N L – General Surgery  
Specialist 
General 
Practitioner 
Class 
Anes 
 
«L3:Removal of Foreign Body -- without anesthesia bill as a visit» 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:872L» 
Removal of Foreign Body -- under local anesthesia 
$98.70 
$98.70 
10 
L 
«CODE:873L» 
Removal of Foreign Body -- under general anesthesia or IV sedation 
(includes post-op recovery) 
$131.25 
$131.25 
10 
L 
«CODE:874L» 
Removal of Foreign Body -- complicated 
By Report 
42 
L 
«CODE:974L» 
Removal of deep metallic foreign body under x-ray or fluoroscopic 
guidance 
$169.20 
$169.20 
10 
L 
 
«L3:Plantar Warts –  venereal warts – see codes 420R to 422R» 
 
 
 
 
 
«L4:Plantar warts -- Excision or fulguration plus curettage» 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:875L» 
-- 
1st wart 
$33.00 
$33.00 
10 
L 
«CODE:876L» 
-- 
each additional wart (maximum of 4) -- bill units 
$11.00 
$11.00 
10 
L 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«L4:Plantar warts -- treatment by cryotherapy, laser, cautery or chemical ablation, or any other non-surgical means. Includes paring and/or debulking of the plantar wart prior to or subsequent to treatment of the wart, when required.» 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:877L» 
-- 
1st wart 
$20.00 
$20.00 
10 
L 
«CODE:878L» 
--  2nd to 7th wart, each (maximum of 6 units for this code) 
$7.50 
$7.50 
10 
L 
«CODE:879L» 
-- 
8th wart and over, each 
$2.05 
$2.05 
10 
L 
 
«L3:Removal of fingernail or toenail» 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:880L» 
Simple avulsion or wedge excision 
$63.00 
$63.00 
10 
L 
«CODE:881L» 
Radical excision of nail bed or hemiphalangectomy 
$152.50 
$152.50 
10 
L 
«CODE:882L» 
Wedge resection with phenol or cautery or cryo ablation 
$116.55 
$116.55 
10 
L 
«CODE:883L» 
Trimming of toenails, corns or calluses where medically necessary          
-- maximum of 1 per day. Not billable for the paring and/or debulking 
of a wart prior to or subsequent to treatment of the wart. 
$29.40 
$29.40 
0 
L 
«CODE:884L» 
Soft tissue nail-fold excision for ingrown toenails -- Vandenbos surgery 
$141.75 
$141.75 
10 
L 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«L3:Lacerations»  
 
1. Repair of lacerations  where approximation of wound edges needs 
to be achieved and maintained 
 
 
2. Laceration repair is categorized below by body location. 
 
 
3. When claiming for multiple repairs, add the lengths of all 
individual lacerations for the same location category; i.e., (A) or 
(B), and submit as a single total laceration under the appropriate 
codes(s). 
 
 
4. Where lacerations involve both location categories, apply the 
same procedure within each category). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«L4:(A)  Face, palm of hand, fingers, sole of foot or toes» 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:890L» 
   -- up to 2.5 cm. 
$67.80 
$67.80 
10 
L 
«CODE:891L» 
   -- each additional 2.5 cm -- bill units 
$33.90 
$33.90 
10 
L 
 
«L4:(B)  Other areas, including scalp» 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:894L» 
   -- up to 2.5 cm. 
$45.20 
$45.20 
10 
L 
«CODE:895L» 
   -- each additional 2.5 cm – bill units 
$22.60 
$22.60 
10 
L 
«CODE:896L» 
   -- complicated 
By Report 
42 
L 


--- Page 230 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 230
 
 
S E C T I O N L – General Surgery  
Specialist 
General 
Practitioner 
Class 
Anes 
«CODE:897L» 
Tray service -- only for office procedures which require: 
$30.80 
$30.80 
 
 
a) Sutures or staples (not billable for tissue glue or Steri-
Strips); 
b) The use of sterilized instruments and are performed under 
local anesthetic; example: excision of skin lesions with 
suture closure; biopsies requiring local anesthesia and 
suture closure; wedge resection of toenails; vasectomy; 
sigmoidoscopy; or endometrial biopsies. 
 
 
 
 
 
Payable with the following office procedures: 
117A; 100F (with sutures), 102F (with sutures); 45L, 159L, 430L, 
449L, 450L, 854L, 857L, 860L, 863L, 866L, 867L, 868L, 869L, 872L, 
880L, 881L, 882L, 890L (with sutures or staples), 894L (with sutures 
or staples), 380N, 382N, 684N, 685N; 31P, 39P; 59R, 190R (skin 
closure with suture or staples);  72S, 89S or 100S. 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:899L» 
Minor tray service – only for office procedures which require two of 
the following: 
$14.30 
$14.30 
 
 
 
a) Suturing, 
b) The use of sterilized instruments; or, 
c) Performed under local anesthetic. 
 
 
 
 
 
Payable with the following office procedures: 
a) 104A, 105A, 116A, 123A; 100F (without sutures), 102F 
(without sutures),  888F; 94H, 158H; 379L, 705L, 850L, 
884L; 380M, 381M, 382M; 108P, 109P, 114P; 190R (skin 
closure without sutures);  63S, 91S, 92S, 250S; and, 88T. 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:898L» 
Removal of sutures and/or staples from lacerations or surgical 
incisions of any length by any physician 
$20.00 
$20.00 
0 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

«L1:SECTION L – General Surgery»

«L2:Surgical Debridements»

«CODE:700L» Surgical debridement; excision of damaged, necrotic or otherwise non-viable tissue
By Report
10

1) Payment will include payment for office tray service where applicable.

2) This item is not paid in addition to laceration suture see code 896L; nor to burns.

3) For a claim to be processed, the physician must provide details of:
a) The patients clinical condition; 
b) The treatment or procedure provided; 
c) Time when the debridement started and was completed.

Surgical debridement; excision of damaged, necrotic or otherwise non-viable tissue  
1) Payable when debridement of necrotizing soft tissue infection or systemic sepsis, under general anesthesia, regional anesthesia or monitored care. 
2) Payment approved for General Surgery and Urology only.
3) Services 701L, 702L and 703L are exempt from the repeat surgical rules. 

«CODE:701L» Less than 65 sq. cm
$174.05

10
H
«CODE:702L» 65-100 sq. cm
$277.30

42
H
«CODE:703L» Over 100 sq. cm
$453.00

42
H

«CODE:705L» Surgical Debridement of chronic skin ulcer or wound
$88.00

10
L

Payable for surgical debridement only. For services that exceed 30 minutes, physician is to bill 700L, by report.  Payment approved for General Surgery and Urology only

«L2:Split Thickness Skin Grafts»

1) Payment approved for general surgeons with additional training and expertise in split thickness skin grafting.
2) Qualified physicians do not need to request approval to bill for these services prior to the service being billed and/or provided.  No formal entitlement is required. 
3) Physicians only need to provide documentation demonstrating their training if the Ministry of Health specifically requests it.
4) Not billable by Plastic Surgery, Otolaryngology, Ophthalmology, or Urology.  Physicians from these specialities must use available N codes.

«CODE:710L» Defects up to 6 sq. cm. (neck, trunk, arms, legs) onlay type graft – meticulous operative fixation not required
$70.20

10
L
«CODE:711L» Defects up to 6-65 sq. cm. (neck, trunk, arms, legs) onlay type graft – meticulous operative fixation not required
$118.30

42
M
«CODE:712L» Defects up to 65-194 sq. cm. (neck, trunk, arms, legs) onlay type graft – meticulous operative fixation not required
$257.95

42
M
«CODE:720L» Penetrating wound (e.g. gunshot or stab wound) - of chest
By Report
42
H
«CODE:721L» Penetrating wound (e.g. gunshot or stab wound) - of abdomen
By Report
42
M

«CODE:725L» Internalization of Epidural Catheter - tunnelling
$261.15
$234.95
10
L
«CODE:726L» Internalization of Epidural Catheter - establishment and connection of catheter
$120.00
$108.00
0
L

Burns:  Emergency treatment (e.g. as outpatient bill as 5B or 918A.   Also, See section N.

«L2:BMI Supplement»

«CODE:580L» General surgery supplement for patients with a Body Mass Index (Weight [kg]/Height [m] 2) greater than 40

1. Maximum of one 580L supplement per patient per day.
2. Supplement 580L may be billed by all physicians with all Section L procedures done in the operating room.
3. Bariatric surgery fee code 327L is exempt from this supplement.
4. BMI supplements are not payable to the surgical assistant billing "J" section codes.
$70.45
$70.45

«L2:Vascular Laboratory»

Applicable to ultrasound vascular studies done in an approved hospital-based Vascular Laboratory only

«L3:Peripheral Arterial»

«CODE:750L» Resting arterial assessment  
$12.70
$12.70
D

-- to include multiple wave form and/or segmental pressure analysis, calculation and ankle/arm index

«CODE:751L» Reactive hyperemia with sequential pressures
$12.60
$12.60
D

«CODE:752L» Vasospastic assessment
$12.60
$12.60
D

-- to include digital pressures and/or plethysmography, cold and hot stress responses and/or multiple extremity wave form analysis

«CODE:753L» Sympathetic tone response 
$12.60
$12.60
D

-- to include resting arterial assessment plus plethysmography and/or impedance monitoring and/or digital wave forms, response to Valsalva manoeuvres or other stimuli

«CODE:756L» Digital index assessment (finger or toe), PPG wave forms, pulse volume recordings (not including resting arterial ankle brachial indexes).
$13.35
$13.35
D

«L3:Peripheral Venous»

«CODE:754L» Laboratory assessment for interpretation of peripheral venous system
$12.70
$12.70
D

«L2:Endoscopy»

Preamble:

1. Base fees include full endoscopic exam with or without biopsies.

2. Base fees include intravenous injection of medication for sedation if provided by physician performing procedure.

3. Unusually complicated or difficult endoscopies by report.

4. Biopsy for Barrett's esophagitis and inflammatory bowel disease are listed in endoscopic interventions.

5. Cryotherapy for bleeding from polypectomy site is included in polypectomy code.
«CODE:402L» Esophagoscopy -- base
$85.50
$85.50
D
L
«CODE:403L»  --  Bleeding varices management (banding, sclerotherapy, glue, endoloops, hemoclips or other) -- any combination -- add
$125.10
$125.10
D

«CODE:404L»  --  Removal of benign tumor -- add
$61.80
$61.80
D

Dilatations via endoscope

D

«CODE:405L» -- by means of pneumatic bag or balloon -- with or without thread or wire guidance -- add
$124.10
$124.10
D

«CODE:406L» --  by means of sound or bougie – add
$63.10
$63.10
D

«CODE:407L» --  stenting with or without dilatation -- add
$128.30
$128.30
D

«CODE:408L» Gastroduodenoscopy -- base includes esophagoscopy
$130.80
$130.80
D
L
«CODE:409L» Management of bleeding (varices, ulcers, GAVE Banding, sclerotherapy, glue, endoloop, hemoclips or other) – any 
$128.30
$128.30
D

combination of above -- add

«CODE:410L» Nasojejunostomy tube placement -- add
$63.10
$63.10
D

«CODE:411L» Extended enteroscopy -- add
$126.60
$126.60
D

«CODE:412L» Dilatation of pylorus -- add
$61.80
$61.80
D

«CODE:475L» Endoscopic mucosal resection (EMR) for Barrett's esophagus -- add
$110.00
$110.00
D

  1.  Payable in addition to 408L; and

  2.  Must be billed with diagnosis of Barrett's esophagus (530).

«CODE:499L» Radiofrequency ablation for Barrett's esophagus -- add
$212.10
$212.10
D
L
«CODE:590L» Placement of gastric or duodenal self-expanding metal stent - add
$183.10
$183.10
D
L

«L3:Endoscopic Ultrasound»

«CODE:490L» Upper endoscopic ultrasound -- base
$265.10
$265.10
D
L
«CODE:492L» Lower endoscopic ultrasound -- base
$159.00
$159.00
D
L
«CODE:495L» Endoscopic - fine needle aspiration biopsy -- one or more – add to 490L, 492L
$53.00
$53.00
D
L
«CODE:496L» Endoscopic  - injection of one or more metastases, nodes, masses or celiac plexus -- add to 490L, 492L
$162.20
$162.20
D
L
«CODE:497L» Endoscopic  - drainage of pseudo cyst, one or more -- add to 490L, 492L
$212.10
$212.10
D
L

Percutaneous gastrostomy under gastroscopic control - by two physicians 

 Endoscopic gastrostomy or jejunostomy

«CODE:443L»    -- 1st physician
$189.40
$189.40
0
«CODE:444L»    -- 2nd physician
$126.60
$126.60
0

Endoscopic gastrostomy and jejunostomy same day

«CODE:445L»    -- 1st physician
$278.60
$278.60
0
«CODE:446L»    -- 2nd physician
$184.50
$184.50
0
«CODE:498L» Endoanal Ultrasound
$125.50
$125.50
D

PEG tube change

«CODE:447L» External approach PEG tube removal -- external via gastroscope
$25.20
$25.20
D
«CODE:448L» Colonoscopy -- base
$203.00
$203.00
D
«CODE:449L» Sigmoidoscopy -- flexible -- base code
$70.40
$70.40
D
«CODE:450L» Sigmoidoscopy -- rigid -- base code
$35.40
$35.40
D
«CODE:453L» Ileoscopy/jejunoscopy when done through ileostomy– base code
$70.40
$70.40
D

(Considered an inclusion when performed same day as 448L or 408L)

Gastrointestinal Endoscopic Interventions - biopsy included in base code except:

«CODE:480L»    -- for inflammatory bowel disease - 10 or more specimens - add
$62.30
$62.30
D
«CODE:481L»    -- Barrett's esophagus - 4 or more specimens - add
$31.50
$31.50
D

Polypectomy (any GI site) -- by loop, electrocautery, submucosal injection, etc.

«CODE:482L» Polypectomy (any GI site) -- 1st polyp -- add
$63.10
$63.10
D
«CODE:483L» Polypectomy (any GI site) -- 2nd to 5th polyp, each (maximum of 5 total) -- add
$47.90
$47.90
D
«CODE:484L» Sclerotherapy by any thermal means (e.g. heater or bicapprobe) or any injectable method (e.g. Adrenalin, sclerosing solution) or by gluing -- add
$61.80
$61.80
D
«CODE:485L» Dilatations -- all GI dilatations other than esophageal, add
$61.40
$61.40
D
«CODE:486L» Tattoo -- any GI site -- add -- bill units
$31.50
$31.50
D
«CODE:487L» Botox -- any GI or bronchial site -- add
$62.70
$62.70
D
«CODE:488L» Foreign body removal -- any GI site -- add
$63.10
$63.10

«CODE:500L» Endoscopic Retrograde Cholangiopancreatography -- base 
a) includes routine sweeps of common duct 
b) maximum procedural billing per base code same day $571.00
$242.80
$242.80
D
«CODE:501L»    -- plus papillotomy /sphincterotomy - add
$92.90
$92.90
D

   -- with removal of common duct stones and sludge

«CODE:502L»    -- 1 to 4 stones and/or sludge -- add
$61.80
$61.80
D
«CODE:503L»    -- with removal of 5 or more stones -- includes 1 to 4 stones add
$124.10
$124.10
D
«CODE:504L»    -- with mechanical lithotripsy -- add
$61.80
$61.80
D
«CODE:505L»    -- with brush cytology -- add
$30.90
$30.90
D

With biliary or pancreatic duct balloon dilatations

«CODE:506L»    -- 1st -- add
$61.80
$61.80
D

«CODE:507L»    -- 2nd -- add
$30.90
$30.90
D

With stentings (any type of stent) - stent insertion

«CODE:508L»    -- 1st -- add
$61.80
$61.80
D

«CODE:509L»    -- 2nd -- add
$30.90
$30.90
D

«CODE:510L»    -- stent removal -- one or more add
$30.90
$30.90
D

«CODE:511L»    -- stent removal and replacement -- add
$61.80
$61.80
D

«CODE:513L»    -- with nasobiliary tube placement -- add
$59.30
$59.30
D

«CODE:514L» With cholangioscopy / pancreatoscopy -- add 
$121.40
$121.40
D

«CODE:520L» Bronchoscopy Base -- unilateral or bilateral with or without biopsy
$126.60
$126.60
D 
L
«CODE:521L»    -- with fluoroscopy -- add
$60.50
$60.50
D

«CODE:522L»    -- with tracheobronchial toilet -- add
$63.10
$63.10
D

«CODE:523L»    -- with removal of benign tumor -- add
$55.00
$55.00
D

«CODE:524L»    -- with endobronchial malignant tumor debulking -- add
$260.00
$260.00
D

«CODE:525L»    -- with tracheo oesophageal fistula creation -- add
$55.90
$55.90
D

«CODE:526L»    -- with removal of foreign body (rigid or flexscope) -- add
$184.50
$184.50
D

«CODE:515L» Endobronchial Ultrasound Base -- includes bronchoscopy
$270.40
$270.40
D

«CODE:516L» Transbronchial needle aspiration 
   -- add to 515L 
   -- maximum of 3 lesions or stations
$54.00
$54.00
D

«CODE:452L» Video Capsule Endoscopy 
  -- 15 minute units 
  -- maximum of 10 units
$54.30
$54.30
D

«L3:Balloon Endoscopies»

«CODE:527L» Antegrade Double Balloon Enteroscopy
$275.70
$275.70
D
L
«CODE:627L» Antegrade Single Balloon Enteroscopy
$275.70
$275.70
D
L
«CODE:528L» Retrograde Double Balloon Enteroscopy
$347.80
$347.80
D
L
«CODE:628L» Retrograde Single Balloon Enteroscopy
$347.80
$347.80
D
L
«CODE:529L» Double Balloon Colonoscopy
$304.30
$304.30
D
L
«CODE:530L» Double Balloon Endoscopic Retrograde Cholangiopancreatography
$347.80
$347.80
D
L

BLANK PAGE INTENTIONAL

«L1:SECTION M – Orthopedic Surgery»

«L2:Visit Services»

«CODE:5M*» Initial assessment -- of a specific condition includes: 
$77.00
$61.65

a) pertinent family history;
b) patient history;
c) history of presenting complaint;
d) functional enquiry;
e) examination of affected part(s) or system(s);
f) diagnosis;
g) assessment;
h) necessary treatment;
i) advice to the patient; and,
j) record of service provided.

«CODE:7M*» Follow-up assessment -- includes: 
$55.90
$55.90

a) history review;
b) functional enquiry;
c) examination;
d) reassessment;
e) necessary treatment;
f) advice to the patient; and,
g) record of service provided.

«CODE:9M*» Consultation – includes: 
a) all visits necessary;
b) history and examination;
c) review of laboratory and/or other data;
d) written submission of the consultant's opinion; and, 
e) recommendations to the referring doctor.
$119.80

«CODE:10M*» Consultation for patients referred for back pain only
$85.00

«CODE:11M*» Repeat consultation
$57.95

A formal consultation for the same or related condition repeated within 90 days by the same physician.  Repeat consultation is only to be billed when it is generated by a new formal request by the referring physician. It should not be used for routine follow-up of the patient for which service code '7M' "follow-up assessment" is appropriate.

*  Payment for patients 0-5 years of age and patients 65 years of age and older are automatically applied.

«CODE:~13M» Written advice to referring physician on the management of a case based upon review of x-rays by Orthopedic Surgeon (payable once per case)
$56.30
$45.05

@ Payment approved for a physician with training and expertise in this section

«L2:Hospital Care – Payable on day of admission»

Hospital care is billable by the physician responsible for inpatient care of patients admitted to hospital. Hospital care includes all of the routine services required to manage in hospital care. Additional services provided as a result of an acute episode may be payable with an explanation.  

Post-operative hospital care is included in the surgical fee and can only be paid if hospital care is provided by another physician for a condition unrelated to the surgery. Upon transfer of hospital care to another physician, billing of hospital care should be as if there was a continuation of care under the same physician. 

An assessment or consultation may not be billed when hospital care is transferred to another physician. Hospital care may be billed for short term acute care patients who are admitted to a health centre in the same manner as an acute care hospital. Physicians may not use hospital care to cover in-hospital patients who are designated as long-term care. These patients are to be billed under codes 627A-629A – Special Care Home Management.

«CODE:25M» -- 1-10 days
-- per day -- bill units (max 10)
$31.55
$31.55
«CODE:26M» -- 11-20 days
-- per day -- bill units (max 10)
$31.55
$31.55
«CODE:27M» -- 21-30 days
-- per day -- bill units (max 10)
$31.55
$31.55
«CODE:28M» -- 31 days and thereafter
-- per day -- bill units (max 99)
$31.55
$31.55

«L2:Virtual Care Services»

Please see Virtual Care preamble in the introductory section of the Payment Schedule for more information.

«CODE:507M» Virtual follow-up assessment provided via telephone or secure videoconference-- includes:

a) history review;
$50.30
$50.30

b) functional enquiry;

c) reassessment; 

d) necessary treatment; 

e) advice to the patient; and 

f) record of service provided.

«CODE:509M» Virtual consultation provided via telephone or secure videoconference-- includes:
$107.80

a) all visits necessary; 

b) history;

c) review of laboratory and/or other data;

d) written submission of the consultant's opinion; and

e) recommendations to the referring doctor.

«CODE:511M» Repeat virtual consultation provided via telephone or secure videoconference:
$52.20

A formal virtual consultation for the same or related condition repeated within 90 days by the same physician. Repeat virtual consultation is only to be billed when it is generated by a new formal request by the referring physician. It should not be used for routine virtual follow-up of the patient for which service code '507M' "Virtual follow-up assessment" is appropriate.

«L2:Procedures»

Additional payments for diagnostic service excluding ECGs, 0, 10 or 42 day operative procedures performed on patients under one (1) year of age are automatically calculated and paid as explained in Section A.

Classification of Bones for Payment Purposes


Long
Short
Major
Minor
Large
Small
Clavicle
X

X

X

Humerus
X

X

X

Radius
X

X

X

Ulna
X

X

X

Femur
X

X

X

Tibia
X

X

X

Fibula
X

X

X

Patella


X

X

Mandible


X

X

Facial Bones


X

X

Scapula


X

X

Pelvis


X

X

Vertebra


X

X

Os Calcis


X

X

Talus


X

X

Other Tarsal Bones



X

X
Carpal Bones



X

X
Metacarpals

X

X

X
Metatarsals

X

X

X
Phalanges

X

X

X

«CODE:30M» Incision of deep soft tissue, abscess from osteomyelitis - by report
$450.00
$450.00
42
L
«CODE:31M» Removal of percutaneous pins/wires in office or outpatient setting
$38.50
$38.50
0

«L3:Internal Fixation Removal»

Not paid in addition to or part of another orthopedic procedure unless the internal fixation device is removed from a separate operative site.

«CODE:32M» Operative removal of metal bone fixation device(s), any number of screws, nails or wires per operative site
$100.00
$100.00
10
L
«CODE:33M»   -- plate (including screws, intramedullary nail)
$364.45
$364.45
10
L

«L3:Osteotomy – with or without internal fixation»

«CODE:40M» Clavicle
$544.60
$490.65
42
L
«CODE:44M» Humerus or ulna or radius
$544.60
$490.65
42
L
«CODE:48M» Radius and ulna
$544.60
$490.65
42
L
«CODE:49M» Femur – neck or supracondylar
$544.60
$490.65
42
M
«CODE:50M» Femur -- trochanteric or subtrochanteric
$544.60
$490.65
42
M
«CODE:56M» Tibia and Fibula
$544.60
$490.65
42
M

«CODE:64M» Femur, supracondylar and tibia and fibular
$518.75
$466.85
42
M
«CODE:60M» Metacarpal, metatarsal or phalanx—one
$431.20
$388.10
42
L
«CODE:68M» Os calcis (Dwyer or wedge tarsectomy)
$544.60
$490.15
42
L

«L3:Excision»

«CODE:81M» Biopsy bone
$311.25
$280.10
42
L
«CODE:107M» Radio-ulnar synostosis
$985.45
$887.00
42
L
«CODE:90M» Coccygectomy
$414.90
$373.40
42
L
«CODE:93M» Excision of bone cyst, chondroma, exostosis - large bone
$440.00
$396.00
42
L
«CODE:94M» Excision of bone cyst, chondroma, exostosis - large bone - with bone graft
$440.00
$396.00
42
L
«CODE:95M» Excision of bone cyst, chondroma, exostosis - small bone
$363.05
$326.75
42
L
«CODE:96M» Excision of bone cyst, chondroma, exostosis - small bone - with bone graft
$336.80
$303.10
42
L
«CODE:98M» Partial ostectomy, excision of distal end of ulna or radius
$259.35
$233.45
42
L
«CODE:100M» Saucerization and/or sequestrectomy -- large bone
$440.00
$396.00
42
L
«CODE:101M» Saucerization and/or sequestrectomy -- small bone
$312.70
$281.45
42
L
«CODE:103M» Radical resection of bone for tumor with bone graft -- major bone
$1,141.15
$1,027.00
42
M
«CODE:104M» Radical resection of bone for tumor with bone graft -- minor bone
$1,141.15
$1,027.00
42
M
«CODE:83M» Claviculectomy – partial
$186.70
$168.10
42
L
«CODE:84M» Claviculectomy – total
$778.00
$700.25
42
L
«CODE:86M» Excision of head of radius
$384.65
$346.15
42
L
«CODE:88M» Carpectomy
$407.00
$366.30
42
L
«CODE:89M» Carpectomy -- each additional (same field only) -- bill units
$311.25
$280.10
42
L
«CODE:87M» Metacarpectomy or metatarsectomy
$363.05
$326.75
42
L
«CODE:102M» Excision of head of femur
$336.05
$302.90
42
M
«CODE:91M» Patellectomy – partial
$226.20
$203.30
42
L
«CODE:92M» Patellectomy – total
$674.30
$606.80
42
L
«CODE:97M» Shaving of patella – when only procedure done
$218.90
$197.10
42
L
«CODE:85M» Astagalectomy
$431.20
$388.75
42
L
«CODE:79M» Excision of 4 metatarsal heads
$357.15
$321.45
42
L

«L3:Introduction»

«CODE:110M» Insertion of Kirschner wire or metal pins for traction or cast fixation
$144.30
$144.30
0
L
«CODE:111M» Application of calliper or tongs
$144.30
$144.30
0
L

«L1:SECTION M – Orthopedic Surgery»

«L3:Repair»

«CODE:120M» Osteoplasty -- shortening of bone -- femur, tibia or humerus $466.85 $420.15 42 M

«CODE:121M» Osteoplasty -- shortening of bone -- radius or ulna $311.25 $280.60 42 L

«CODE:122M» Osteoplasty -- shortening of bone -- both radius and ulna $726.20 $653.55 42 L

«CODE:123M» Osteoplasty -- shortening of bone -- other bones $311.25 $280.10 42 L

«CODE:124M» Osteoplasty -- lengthening of bone – major $778.00 $700.25 42 M

«CODE:125M» Osteoplasty -- lengthening of bone -- minor (hand or foot) $508.75 $457.90 42 L

«CODE:126M» Acromioplasty includes excision of distal clavicle $356.10 $320.55 42 L

«CODE:150M» Scapulopexy $933.65 $840.25 42 M

Epiphyseal-diaphyseal fusion, epiphyseal arrest or epiphysiodesis

«CODE:152M» -- femur or tibia and fibula $466.85 $420.15 42 L

«CODE:154M» -- combined (femur, tibial and fibular) epiphyseal arrest $659.40 $593.45 42 L

«CODE:155M» -- combined (upper and lower tibial and fibular) epiphyseal arrest $659.40 $593.45 42 L

«L3:BMI Supplement»

«CODE:180M» Orthopedic surgery supplement for patients with a Body Mass Index, (Weight [kg]/Height [m] 2) greater than 40 $171.15

1. Maximum of one 180M supplement per patient per day.
2. Supplement 180M may be billed by orthopedic surgeons with all M Section procedures done in the operating room.
3. BMI supplements are not payable to the surgical assistant billing "J section codes".

---

«L2:FRACTURES»

1. Definitions

a) Immobilization means the treatment of a fracture by any method other than that designated in (b) or (c) below.

b) Closed reduction means the reduction of a fracture by non-operative methods (includes skin traction, K wire or Steinmann's pin for balanced traction).

c) Open reduction means the reduction of a fracture by an operative procedure to include the exposure of the fracture and fixation with intramedullary or other type of appliance.

d) Long bones are clavicle, humerus, radius, ulna, femur, tibia and fibula.

e) Large bones are the above long bones plus mandible, facial bones, scapula, pelvis, vertebra, patella, os calcis and talus.

2. Immobilization

Payment is made on a fee-for-service basis for non-operative management ( conservative treatment) of stable fractures requiring immobilization only unless otherwise noted in the payment schedule

3. Reduction

a) Payment includes all manipulations and re-manipulations to achieve and maintain satisfactory reduction during the designated post-operative period.

b) Payment may be made for the reapplication of casts after the discharge of a hospital in patient. The reapplication of a cast on the day of surgery is not billable.

c) Payment may be made to a physician who provides emergency care to a patient with a fracture before referral to a specialist.

d) When the attending physician attempts a closed reduction but fails to achieve satisfactory reduction:

i. subsequent closed reduction billed by the same physician (or another physician in the same clinic and specialty) is deemed to be an inclusion within the payment made for the previous attempted reduction.

ii. a subsequent closed reduction by any other physician (not in the same specialty and clinic) will be paid at 100% and payment for the initial attempt shall be reduced by 50%.

iii. a subsequent closed reduction with external fixation by any physician is paid at 100% and payment for the initial closed reduction shall be reduced by 50%.

4. Open reduction:

a) if a fracture is ununited within the designated post-operative period, and an open operation with or without bone graft becomes necessary by any physician, the payment for the original open or closed reduction shall be reduced by 50%.

b) when a payment for open reduction is not listed, the listing for a closed reduction may be raised by 50%.

c) Intramedullary fixation (closed or open) is payable at the same rate as open reduction.

5. Multiple fractures:

a) Multiple fractures requiring closed or open reduction will be paid at 100% for the major reduction and 75% of the listed payment(s) for the remainder, unless

i. a composite payment is listed for the multiple fractures; or,
ii. a specific payment is listed for the "additional" procedures; or,
iii. a specific assessment rule applies for the type and locale of the fractures.

b) When multiple major fractures involving different long bones of the same or different extremity occur at the same time, the management of each fracture under the same Anesthetic may be paid at 100% of the listing unless specified otherwise.

6. Unless otherwise listed, the payment for treatment of a compound fracture is the closed reduction payment plus 50% except where this would exceed the listed payment for open reduction. The maximum payment for reduction of a compound fracture by closed or open reduction is the listed payment for open reduction.

7. Payment for open treatment of a fracture which remains ununited after the designated post-operative period is based on 150% of the Payment Schedule item for primary open reduction.

8. Fracture and Dislocation

a) Only the greater listed amount is paid when a Fracture and Dislocation are billed for the same day, same site.

b) Unless otherwise indicated, the rules for Fractures and Dislocations apply:

-- on the same day -- to the same physician or another physician in the same specialty and clinic (or part of the surgical team);

-- during the designated post-operative period -- to the surgeon, a general practitioner in the same clinic, or a specialist in the same specialty and clinic.

«L3:Bone graft»

«CODE:133M» Use of bone graft
a) autogenous bone from different site;
b) add 50% of the amount payable for the procedure done; and
c) cannot be billed for spine surgery cases;

«CODE:134M» Bone bank
a) add 25%; and
b) cannot be billed for spine surgery cases.

«CODE:135M» Harvesting of bone graft for use by oral surgeon $610.55 $549.55 42 L

«CODE:136M» Extensive harvesting of cadaver bone for bone bank $989.15 $890.20 42

«L3:Trunk»

«CODE:166M» Sacrum -- operative management $165.95 $149.35 42 L

«CODE:173M» Clavicle -- open reduction $550.00 $495.05 42 L

«CODE:174M» Scapula -- closed reduction $137.50 $137.50 42 L

«CODE:177M» Scapula -- open reduction $841.05 $757.00 42 L

«CODE:179M» Sternum -- open reduction $152.55 $136.85 42 L

«L4:Pelvis (Ilium, Ischium, Pubis)»

«CODE:192M» Pelvis -- fracture -- one or more bones -- open reduction $1,121.45 $1,009.35 42 M

«CODE:193M» Pelvis -- fracture -- unstable -- closed reduction with external fixation $582.20 $524.05 42 M

«L4:Acetabulum -- with or without other fractures of pelvis»

«CODE:195M» Acetabulum -- central -- with displacement $277.00 $248.95 42 L

«CODE:196M» Acetabulum -- open reduction $1,401.85 $1,261.60 42 M

«L3:Upper Extremity»

«CODE:201M» Humerus -- surgical neck or epiphyseal separation -- closed reduction $155.75 $155.75 42 L

«CODE:203M» Humerus -- surgical neck or epiphyseal separation -- open reduction $600.00 $540.00 42 L

«CODE:204M» Humerus -- shaft -- closed reduction $185.25 $185.25 42 L

«CODE:206M» Humerus -- shaft -- open reduction $600.00 $540.00 42 L

«CODE:210M» Humerus -- shaft -- reduction with external fixation device $392.50 $353.20 42 L

«CODE:207M» Elbow -- epicondyle only -- closed reduction $139.75 $139.75 42 L

«CODE:208M» Elbow -- epicondyle only -- open reduction $440.00 $396.00 42 L

Distal end of humerus, proximal end of radius or ulna, condyle
-- one or more bones

«CODE:209M» -- closed reduction $155.75 $155.75 42 L

«CODE:212M» -- open reduction $600.00 $540.00 42 L

«CODE:214M» Supracondylar -- displaced -- closed reduction by manipulation or traction $195.80 $176.85 42 L

«CODE:218M» Olecranon -- open reduction $336.50 $302.85 42 L

«CODE:220M» Radius -- head -- closed reduction $203.90 $203.90 42 L

«CODE:222M» Radius -- head -- open reduction $440.00 $396.00 42 L

«CODE:225M» Radius -- shaft -- closed reduction $155.75 $155.75 42 L

«CODE:229M» Radius -- shaft -- open reduction $440.00 $440.00 42 L

«CODE:233M» Radius -- distal end -- closed -- Colles' including ulnar styloid reduction $211.70 $211.70 42 L

«CODE:235M» Radius -- distal end (Colles' including ulnar styloid) -- open reduction $504.70 $504.70 42 L

«CODE:237M» Colles -- reduction with external fixation device $308.45 $308.45 42 L

«CODE:240M» Ulna -- shaft-- closed reduction $129.80 $129.80 42 L

«CODE:243M» Ulna -- shaft-- open reduction $440.00 $440.00 42 L

«CODE:244M» Ulna -- Monteggia fracture – dislocation $364.45 $327.45 42 L

«CODE:247M» Radius and Ulna (excluding Colle's) -- closed reduction $238.20 $238.20 42 L

«CODE:249M» Radius and Ulna (excluding Colle's) -- open reduction $588.70 $588.70 42 L

«CODE:250M» Radius and Ulna (excluding Colle's) -- reduction with external fixation device $403.70 $403.70 42 L

«CODE:251M» Carpal bone -- closed reduction $118.00 $118.00 42 L

«CODE:252M» Carpal bone -- open reduction $588.70 $588.70 42 L

«CODE:253M» Carpal bone -- reduction with external fixation device $420.55 $420.55 42 L

«CODE:255M» Metacarpal -- closed reduction $203.90 $203.90 42 L

«CODE:257M» Metacarpal -- open reduction $356.80 $321.10 42 L

«CODE:256M» Reduction of Bennett's fracture by internal fixation $356.80 $356.80 42 L

«CODE:260M» Phalanx -- finger or thumb -- closed reduction $203.90 $203.90 42 L

«CODE:262M» Phalanx -- finger or thumb -- open reduction $356.80 $356.80 42 L

«L3:Lower Extremity»

«CODE:291M» Femur -- neck -- internal fixation $792.00 $712.75 42 M

«CODE:295M» Intertrochanteric -- internal fixation $792.00 $712.75 42 M

«CODE:296M» Slipped epiphysis -- closed reduction $419.45 $377.95 42 L

«CODE:297M» Slipped epiphysis -- open reduction – acute $792.00 $712.75 42 M

«CODE:298M» Slipped epiphysis -- reconstructive later $841.05 $757.00 42 M

«CODE:299M» Shaft -- including supracondylar -- closed reduction $292.15 $292.15 42 L

«CODE:303M» Shaft -- including supracondylar -- open reduction $792.00 $712.75 42 M

«CODE:305M» Patella -- immobilization only $174.30 $174.30 42 L

«CODE:307M» Patella -- open reduction or excision -- complete or partial $384.65 $346.15 42 L

«CODE:310M» Tibia -- shaft -- closed reduction -- includes fibular shaft $238.80 $238.80 42 L

«CODE:312M» Tibia -- shaft -- open reduction -- includes fibular shaft $560.80 $560.80 42 M

«CODE:314M» Tibia -- plateau -- closed reduction $207.70 $186.60 42 L

«CODE:315M» Tibia -- plateau -- open reduction $672.85 $605.55 42 M

«CODE:316M» Tibia -- malleolus -- closed reduction $155.75 $155.75 42 L

«CODE:317M» Tibia -- malleolus -- open reduction $364.45 $328.55 42 L

«CODE:318M» Fibula -- shaft -- closed reduction $158.75 $158.75 42 L

«CODE:319M» Fibula -- shaft -- open reduction $364.45 $328.55 42 L

«CODE:320M» Fibula -- malleolus -- closed reduction $129.80 $129.80 42 L

«CODE:321M» Fibula -- malleolus -- open reduction $440.00 $395.40 42 L

«CODE:330M» Tibia and Fibula -- reduction with external fixation device $532.75 $532.75 42 L

«CODE:323M» Ankle -- bimalleolar (including Potts) -- closed reduction $158.75 $158.75 42 L

«CODE:325M» Ankle -- bimalleolar (including Potts) -- open reduction $550.00 $495.00 42 L

«CODE:340M» Ankle -- bimalleolar (including Potts) -- reduction with external
 fixation device $532.75 $478.85 42 L

«CODE:326M» Ankle -- trimalleolar -- closed reduction $158.75 $158.75 42 L

«CODE:328M» Ankle -- trimalleolar -- open reduction $660.00 $594.00 42 L

«CODE:341M» Ankle -- trimalleolar -- reduction with external fixation device $532.75 $478.85 42 L

«CODE:329M» Tarsal -- (except astragalus and os calcis) -- closed reduction $158.75 $158.75 42 L

«CODE:331M» Tarsal -- (except astragalus and os calcis) -- open reduction $550.00 $495.00 42 L

«CODE:332M» Astragalus -- closed reduction $158.75 $158.75 42

«CODE:334M» Astragalus -- open reduction $600.00 $600.00 42 L

«CODE:335M» Os calcis -- closed reduction $158.75 $158.75 42 L

«CODE:337M» Os calcis -- open reduction $600.00 $540.00 42 L

«CODE:338M» Os calcis -- skeletal pinning with external fixation $420.55 $379.05 42 L

«CODE:339M» Metatarsal -- closed reduction $129.80 $129.80 42 L

«CODE:343M» Metatarsal -- open reduction $280.40 $252.35 42 L

«CODE:345M» Phalanx -- closed reduction $158.75 $158.75 42 L

«CODE:348M» Phalanx -- open reduction $280.40 $280.40 42 L

«L3:Treatment of ununited fractures by bone stimulator»

Total care – not payable for stress fractures

«CODE:350M» External application (Bi-Osteogen) $47.20 $47.20  L

«CODE:351M*» Percutaneous insertion $371.10 $371.10  L

«CODE:352M» Operation Implantation

a) add 100% of benefit rate for open reduction (50% for ununited fracture; 50% for operative implantation)

b) with bone bank graft -- add 25% of benefit rate of open reduction, under code 134M

c) with autogenous bone graft -- add 50% of benefit rate of open reduction, under code 133M

«L2:Joints»

«CODE:359M» Arthroscopy $181.55 $162.95 D L

«CODE:500M» Manipulation of any peripheral joint under general anesthesia -- (includes shoulder or hip) $38.65 $38.65 0 L

«L3:Incision»

Arthrotomy or capsulotomy with exploration, drainage or removal of loose body, e.g. osteochondritis or foreign body

«CODE:360M» Shoulder $502.85 $453.05 42 L

«CODE:361M» Elbow $502.85 $453.05 42 L

«CODE:362M» Wrist $502.85 $453.05 42 L

«CODE:363M» Other joints of upper extremity $502.85 $453.05 42 L

«CODE:364M» Hip $502.85 $453.05 42 L

«CODE:365M» Knee $502.85 $453.05 42 L

«CODE:366M» Ankle $502.85 $453.05 42 L

«CODE:367M» Other joints of lower extremity $502.85 $453.05 42 L

«CODE:378M» ORIF or excision of accessory bone foot – includes repair or transfer of tendons and all procedures on the same joint through the same or extended incision by any physician $437.35 $393.60 42 L

«CODE:379M» Open reduction internal fixation or excision sesamoid of the 1st MTP joint $448.35 $403.50 42 L

Arthrocentesis – puncture for aspiration of joint and/or injection
of medication

«CODE:380M» Arthrocentesis – hip $32.10 $32.10 0 L

«CODE:381M» Arthrocentesis – shoulder, elbow, knee $25.45 $25.45 0 L

«CODE:382M» Arthrocentesis – others $25.95 $25.95 0 L

«CODE:383M» Fluoroscopy-guided joint injection (hospital location) – one injection billable per joint – maximum 2 injections per patient contact.
• Second joint injection paid at 75%.
• Not billable with any other surgical procedure on the same patient, same day.
• Not billable for ultrasound injections. $107.80 $97.00 D L

«L3:Excision»

Arthrectomy – Excision of joint

«CODE:390M» Punch biopsy of synovial membrane $38.55 $34.75 D L

«CODE:391M» Temporomandibular joint – meniscectomy $279.00 $251.10 42 L

«CODE:392M» Temporomandibular joint – condylectomy $253.90 $228.40 42 L

«CODE:384M» Chemonucleolysis of intervertebral disc $261.40 $235.45 42 L

«CODE:385M» Percutaneous automated discectomy $319.50 $287.35 42 L

«CODE:398M» Excision of neural arch and nerve exploration for spondylolisthesis $413.95 $372.45 42 L

Major meniscal tears & extensive articular debridement are each paid

«CODE:399M» Meniscectomy – knee $299.75 $269.70 42 L

«CODE:397M» Meniscus repair $363.05 $326.75 42 L

The fee for open or arthroscopic meniscectomy or meniscus repair includes limited trimming of chondromalacia, plica and minor tears of other meniscus.

«CODE:840M» Debridement of Shoulder Joint -- Arthroscopic
a) Major debridement should take more than 20 minutes.
b) Minor debridement, taking less than 20 minutes is included in arthroscopy code 359M) $352.65 $317.45 42 L

«CODE:841M» Debridement of Knee Joint -- Arthroscopic
a) Major debridement should take more than 20 minutes.
b) Minor debridement, taking less than 20 minutes is included in arthroscopy code 359M) $299.75 $269.70 42 L

Synovectomy -- not paid in addition to major joint surgery

«CODE:400M» Synovectomy -- elbow $483.30 $435.40 42 L

«CODE:401M» Synovectomy -- wrist $433.05 $389.75 42 L

«CODE:402M» Synovectomy -- finger -- MP joint – one $384.65 $346.15 42 L

«CODE:404M» Synovectomy -- finger -- IP joint $329.75 $296.75 42 L

«CODE:406M» Synovectomy -- thumb -- MP joint $384.65 $346.15 42 L

«CODE:407M» Synovectomy -- thumb -- IP joint $329.75 $296.75 42 L

«CODE:408M» Synovectomy -- toe – one $311.25 $280.10 42 L

«CODE:410M» Synovectomy -- hip $406.60 $366.25 42 L

«CODE:411M» Synovectomy -- knee $363.05 $326.75 42 L

«CODE:412M» Synovectomy -- ankle $363.05 $326.75 42 L

«CODE:413M» Synovectomy -- foot $363.05 $326.75 42 L

(Excision of ganglion see 671M)

«L3:Arthroplasty»

1. Plastic or reconstructive operation on joint, any type includes reconstruction of ligaments, etc.

2. The reduction of a dislocated hip within the post-operative period is included in the payment for the arthroplasty.

3. For a two stage revision of a total hip replacement, payment is made on the basis of 435M for the first stage and 885M for the second stage.

4. Synovectomy is an inclusion within the payment for major joint surgery.

«CODE:430M» Shoulder arthroplasty $492.80 $443.45 42 M

«CODE:446M» Total shoulder replacement $829.90 $746.90 42 M

«CODE:846M» Total shoulder replacement –revision $1,556.10 $1,400.45 42 M

«CODE:431M» Elbow arthroplasty $492.80 $443.95 42 L

«CODE:442M» Total elbow replacement $985.45 $887.00 42 L

«CODE:842M» Total elbow replacement – revision $1,971.05 $1,773.85 42 L

«CODE:432M» Wrist arthroplasty $622.45 $560.20 42 L

«CODE:448M» Total wrist replacement $985.45 $887.00 42 L

«CODE:848M» Total wrist replacement – revision $1,971.05 $1,773.85 42 L

«CODE:433M» Finger arthroplasty - one joint $356.80 $321.10 42 L

«CODE:434M» Finger arthroplasty - one joint - with prosthesis $200.80 $180.50 42 L

«CODE:834M» Finger arthroplasty - one joint - with prosthesis – revision $433.05 $389.05 42 L

«CODE:634M» -- with extensor tendon transfer $300.80 $271.20 42 L

«CODE:435M» Hip arthroplasty $544.60 $490.65 42 M

«CODE:835M» Hip arthroplasty – revision $1,089.25 $981.30 42 M

«CODE:445M» Total hip replacement or reconstructive arthroplasty $829.90 $746.90 42 M

«CODE:845M» -- with extensive acetabular reconstruction with bone graft – add $200.00 $180.00 42 M

«CODE:885M» Total hip replacement or reconstructive arthroplasty – revision $1,556.10 $1,400.45 42 M

«CODE:436M» Knee arthroplasty $492.80 $443.45 42 M

«CODE:444M» Total knee arthroplasty includes unicompartmental knee and patellar replacement $829.90 $746.90 42 M

«CODE:844M» Total knee arthroplasty includes unicompartmental knee and patellar replacement – revision $1,556.10 $1,400.45 42 M

«CODE:437M» Ankle arthroplasty $522.10 $469.80 42 L

«CODE:449M» Total ankle replacement $1,227.05 $1014.35 42 L

«CODE:849M» Total ankle replacement – revision $1,556.10 $1,400.45 42 L

«CODE:850M» Arthroplasty 1st MTP joint (hemi or total replacement with implant) – includes osteotomy and any other procedures on the 1st MTP joint through the same or extended incision by any physician. $519.15 $467.25 42 L

«CODE:851M» Arthroplasty of lesser MTP joint 2nd through 5th (hemi or total with implant) – includes osteotomy and any other procedures on the lesser MTP joints through the same or extended incision by any physician. $519.15 $467.25 42 L

«CODE:438M» Toe – one joint (except great toe) $363.05 $326.75 42 L

«CODE:439M» Metatarsophalangeal joint -- first -- bunion operation – unilateral $192.30 $173.65 42 L

«CODE:441M» Distal metatarsal osteotomy for bunion correction – includes tenotomy, arthrotomy of 1st MTP joint, all soft tissue realignment, and any other procedures on the same joint through the same or extended incision by any physician. $519.15 $467.25 42 L

«CODE:443M» Isolated first MTP debridement including arthrotomy, cheilectomy and soft tissue realignment.
All inclusive of any combination of the three procedures performed on the same joint, through the same or extended incision by any physician. $471.95 $424.75 42 L

«CODE:460M» 1st metatarsophalangeal (MTP) fusion – includes arthroplasty, cheilectomy, and all other procedures on the same joint through the same incision $490.85 $441.80 42 L

«CODE:475M» Proximal metatarsal osteotomy or 1st TMT fusion with distal lateral soft tissue release and medial capsular plication 1st MTP joint – includes arthroplasty, tenotomy, tendon transfers, and all procedures on the same joint through the same or extended incision by any physician. $624.75 $562.30 42 L

«L3:Arthrodesis»

«CODE:450M» Arthrodesis - shoulder $1,141.15 $1,027.00 42 M

«CODE:451M» Arthrodesis - elbow $778.00 $700.25 42 L

«CODE:452M» Arthrodesis - wrist $778.00 $700.25 42 L

«CODE:453M» Arthrodesis - finger or thumb - one joint $384.65 $346.15 42 L

«CODE:853M» Arthrodesis - finger or thumb - one joint - with autogenous bone graft (includes harvesting) $529.25 $476.40 42 L

«CODE:454M» Arthrodesis - hip $1,141.15 $1,027.00 42 M

«CODE:455M» Arthrodesis - knee $1,141.15 $1,027.00 42 M

«CODE:456M» Arthrodesis – ankle – includes osteotomy, syndesmosis reconstruction and all other procedures on the same joint (ligaments, tendons) through same incision. $874.65 $787.20 42 L

«CODE:464M» Hindfoot Arthrodesis first joint (talocalcaneal, talonavicular, calcaneocuboid joints) – includes arthrotomy or capsulotomy with exploration, drainage or removal of loose body, e.g. osteochondritis or foreign body, soft tissue realignment, tendon lengthening and any other procedures on the same joint through the same or extended incision by any physician. $920.30 $828.25 42 L

«CODE:466M» Hindfoot Arthrodesis, each additional joint (max 2) $212.35 $191.10 42 L

«CODE:462M» Midfoot fusion (naviculocunieform (3 joints), intercunieform (2 joints), TMT (5 joints)) – first joint $495.55 $446.00 42 L

«CODE:465M» Midfoot fusion – each additional joint – bill units (maximum 4), add to 462M, 441M, 457M, 475M. $141.60 $127.45 42 L

«CODE:463M» Arthrodesis -- other joints -- lower extremity $439.60 $395.65 42 L

Hammer and claw toe -- repair includes excision, arthrodesis and arthroplasty of IP joints; capsulotomy of MTP joint; all tenotomies, tendon lengthening and transfers

«CODE:457M» Lesser claw toe correction -- single claw toe (2nd through 5th) - includes tendon transfers, tenotomies, IP joint fusion, osteotomies, capsulotomy MTP joint and any other procedures on the same toe through the same or extended incision by any physician. $377.55 $339.80 42 L

«CODE:458M» Lesser claw toe correction, each additional toe (max 4) $141.60 $127.45 42 L

«CODE:459M» 1st interphalangeal joint (IP) joint fusion – includes excision, arthrodesis and arthroplasty of IP joint; capsulotomy of IP joint; all tenotomies, tendon lengthening and transfers and any other procedures on the same joint through the same or extended incision by any physician. $490.85 $441.75 42 L

«CODE:461M» Plantar plate reconstruction MTP Joint – includes arthrodesis of PIP/DIP joint of the same toe, osteotomy, all tenotomies, tendon lengthening and transfers, and any other procedures on the same joint through the same or extended incision by any physician. $750.00 $675.00 42 M

«CODE:468M» Flat foot plasty or Grice $778.00 $700.25 42 L

«CODE:469M» Stabilization of joints by bone block $384.65 $346.15 42 L

```
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 251
 
 
«L1:S E C T I O N M – Orthopedic Surgery»   
Specialist 
General 
Practitioner 
Class 
Anes 
 
«L3:Clubfoot» 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:520M» 
Clubfoot  
$1,099.00 
$989.15 
42 
M 
 
a) Extensive posterior release 
 
 
 
 
 
b) Includes Achilles tendon lengthening, flexor hallucis longus 
lengthening, capsulotomy of the ankle and subtalar joints 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:521M» 
Clubfoot  
$541.80 
$488.00 
42 
M 
 
a) Complete extensive postero-medial release  
 
 
 
 
 
b) Includes code 520M 
 
 
 
 
 
Club foot  -- non operative management -- Fee For Service 
 
 
 
 
 
«L3:Reconstruction» 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:370M» 
Knee anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction, repair or 
reattachment of bony avulsion 
$544.60 
$490.65 
42 
M 
«CODE:371M» 
Knee posterior cruciate ligament reconstruction, repair or 
reattachment of bony avulsion 
$544.60 
$490.65 
42 
M 
«CODE:372M» 
Knee posterior cruciate ligament reconstruction with allograft or 
autograft 
$817.50 
$735.45 
42 
M 
«CODE:373M» 
Knee medial collateral ligament reconstruction with allograft or 
autograft 
$544.60 
$490.65 
42 
M 
«CODE:374M» 
Knee medial collateral ligament repair, reattachment or 
advancement 
$363.05 
$326.75 
42 
M 
«CODE:375M» 
Knee lateral collateral ligament and/or posterolateral corner  
-- reconstruction with autograft or allograft 
$933.65 
$840.25 
42 
M 
«CODE:376M» 
Knee lateral collateral ligament and/or posterolateral corner  
-- repair, reattachment or advancement 
$544.60 
$490.65 
42 
M 
«CODE:470M» 
Sacroiliac fusion 
$622.45 
$560.20 
42 
M 
«CODE:486M» 
Acute ankle ligament repair/reconstruction/reattachment of bony 
avulsion. Includes any other procedures on the same joint through 
the same or extended incision by any physician  
$283.15 
$254.50 
42 
L 
«CODE:487M» 
Ankle -- reconstruction of ligament(s) for chronic instability – 
includes arthroscopy, osteotomy, synovectomy, arthroplasty, 
arthrodesis, and all tendon repairs, transfers and lengthening and 
any other procedures on the same joint through the same or 
extended incision by any physician.  
$519.15 
$467.25 
42 
L 
«CODE:497M» 
Ankle Ligament Reconstruction with Allograft/Autograft – for failed 
ankle ligament reconstruction or severe tissue deficiency. 
 Includes bone tunnels to reconstruct ligament; graft harvesting 
and tunneling; fixation with screws or interference device, and any 
other procedures on the same joint through the same or extended 
incision by any physician.  
$900.00 
$810.00 
42 
M 
«CODE:488M» 
Hand -- reconstruction of metacarpophalangeal or interphalangeal 
ligament(s) 
$356.80 
$321.10 
42 
L 
«CODE:170M» 
Acetabular labral debridement or repair 
$919.80 
$827.75 
42 
M 
 


--- Page 252 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 252
 
 
S E C T I O N M – Orthopedic Surgery   
Specialist 
General 
Practitioner 
Class 
Anes 
«CODE:480M» 
Capsulorrhaphy -- shoulder  
a) Recurrent dislocation  
b) Suture or repair of joint capsule and ligaments 
$518.75 
$466.85 
42 
M 
«CODE:489M» 
Acromioclavicular joint – repair 
$363.05 
$326.75 
42 
M 
«CODE:490M» 
Acromioclavicular joint – reconstruction 
$622.45 
$560.20 
42 
L 
 


--- Page 253 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 253
 
 
S E C T I O N M – Orthopedic Surgery   
Specialist 
General   
Practitioner 
Class 
Anes 
 
«L3:Dislocations» 
 
The payment listed includes: 
 
 
a) all manipulations to achieve and maintain satisfactory reduction;  
and, 
 
b) visits and the reapplication of any casts or fixation media for a 
related condition on the date of reduction and during the 
period prior to the discharge of hospital in patients. 
 
 
1. Subsequent attempts at reduction are subject to the rules within the 
preamble to "Fractures". 
 
 
2. Payment for compound dislocations is based on 150% of the fee for 
closed reduction. 
 
 
3. Only the greater listed amount is paid when a fracture & dislocation 
are billed for the same day, same site. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:530M» 
Temporomandibular -- closed reduction with or without anesthesia 
$32.35 
$32.35 
10 
L 
«CODE:537M» 
Clavicle -- sternoclavicular -- closed reduction 
$134.75 
$134.75 
10 
L 
«CODE:539M» 
Clavicle -- sternoclavicular -- open reduction 
$457.90 
$412.05 
42 
L 
«CODE:540M» 
Clavicle -- acromioclavicular -- closed reduction 
$215.60 
$215.60 
42 
L 
«CODE:541M» 
Clavicle -- acromioclavicular -- open reduction 
$259.35 
$233.45 
42 
L 
«CODE:542M» 
Shoulder (humerus) -- closed reduction 
$231.75 
$231.75 
42 
L 
«CODE:543M» 
Shoulder (humerus) -- open reduction – fresh 
$214.30 
$193.40 
42 
L 
«CODE:544M» 
Shoulder (humerus) – old 
$318.75 
$286.85 
42 
L 
«CODE:545M» 
Elbow -- closed reduction 
$234.05 
$210.65 
42 
L 
«CODE:547M» 
Elbow -- open reduction – fresh 
$259.35 
$233.45 
42 
L 
«CODE:548M» 
Elbow -- open reduction – old 
$549.55 
$494.60 
42 
L 
«CODE:546M» 
Radial head -- closed reduction (pulled elbow) 
$134.75 
$134.75 
0 
L 
«CODE:549M» 
Wrist -- carpal -- one bone -- closed reduction 
$127.20 
$127.20 
10 
L 
«CODE:551M» 
Wrist -- carpal-- one bone -- open reduction 
$259.35 
$233.45 
42 
L 
«CODE:555M» 
Metacarpal-- closed reduction 
$127.20 
$127.20 
10 
L 
«CODE:557M» 
Metacarpal-- open reduction 
$329.75 
$296.75 
42 
L 
«CODE:558M» 
Metacarpophalangeal joint -- closed reduction 
$127.20 
$127.20 
10 
L 
«CODE:560M» 
Metacarpophalangeal joint -- open reduction 
$302.25 
$272.00 
10 
L 
«CODE:561M» 
Interphalangeal joint -- closed reduction 
$134.75 
$134.75 
42 
L 
«CODE:562M» 
Interphalangeal joint -- open reduction 
$302.25 
$272.00 
42 
L 
«CODE:568M» 
Hip (femur) -- closed reduction 
$259.35 
$259.35 
42 
L 
«CODE:569M» 
Hip (femur) -- open reduction 
$518.75 
$466.85 
42 
M 
«CODE:570M» 
Hip (femur) -- with fracture of posterior portion of acetabulum 
$674.30 
$606.80 
42 
M 
 
Hip -- congenital -- closed treatment -- Fee For Service 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:573M» 
Hip (femur) -- congenital -- open reduction 
$824.25 
$741.90 
42 
M 
«CODE:574M» 
Hip (femur) -- congenital -- with shelving 
$714.40 
$642.90 
42 
M 
«CODE:575M» 
Pelvic osteotomy -- Salter, etc 
$1,141.15 
$1,027.00 
42 
M 
«CODE:576M» 
Pelvic osteotomy -- with arthrotomy 
$557.20 
$501.15 
42 
M 


--- Page 254 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 254
 
 
S E C T I O N M – Orthopedic Surgery   
Specialist 
General    
Practitioner 
Class 
Anes 
 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:577M» 
Knee (tibia) -- closed reduction 
$127.20 
$127.20 
42 
L 
«CODE:579M» 
Knee (tibia) -- open reduction 
$337.10 
$303.40 
42 
L 
«CODE:580M» 
Patella -- closed reduction 
$127.20 
$127.20 
10 
L 
«CODE:582M» 
Patella -- open reduction 
$151.40 
$135.95 
42 
L 
«CODE:583M» 
Reconstruction for recurrent patellar dislocation -- lateral retinacular 
release 
$200.00 
$180.00 
42 
L 
«CODE:581M» 
Reconstruction for recurrent patellar dislocation -- soft tissue 
realignment 
$700.00 
$630.00 
42 
L 
«CODE:589M» 
Reconstruction for recurrent patellar dislocation -- bony realignment 
including soft tissue realignment 
$357.85 
$322.65 
42 
L 
«CODE:584M» 
Ankle -- closed reduction 
$207.45 
$207.45 
42 
L 
«CODE:585M» 
Ankle -- open reduction 
$337.10 
$303.40 
42 
L 
«CODE:586M» 
Ankle -- subastragalar -- closed reduction 
$207.45 
$186.70 
42 
L 
«CODE:587M» 
Ankle -- subastragalar -- open reduction 
$337.10 
$303.40 
42 
L 
«CODE:588M» 
Tarsal -- closed reduction 
$207.45 
$207.45 
42 
L 
«CODE:590M» 
Tarsal -- open reduction 
$337.10 
$303.40 
42 
L 
«CODE:591M» 
Metatarsal -- one bone-- closed reduction 
$127.20 
$127.20 
10 
L 
«CODE:594M» 
Metatarsal -- one bone -- open reduction 
$259.35 
$233.45 
42 
L 
«CODE:596M» 
Toe -- closed reduction 
$134.75 
$134.75 
10 
L 
«CODE:598M» 
Toe -- open reduction 
$274.80 
$274.80 
42 
L 
 
«L3:Bursae» 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:610M» 
Incision & drainage of infected bursa 
$40.00 
$40.00 
10 
L 
«CODE:611M» 
Removal of subdeltoid calcareous deposits 
$126.10 
$113.55 
42 
L 
«CODE:612M» 
Removal of subtrochanteric calcareous deposits 
$135.95 
$122.40 
42 
L 
 
Removal of calcareous deposits -- other joints -- see Arthrotomy 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:614M» 
Puncture for aspiration or needling with or without irrigation or 
injection of medication 
$15.45 
$15.45 
0 
L 
«CODE:620M» 
Radical excision of bursae -- forearm, viz tenosynovitis, fungosa, Tbc., 
and other granulomas 
$251.00 
$226.15 
42 
L 
«CODE:621M» 
Excision of bursa – olecranon 
$259.35 
$259.35 
42 
L 
«CODE:622M» 
Excision of bursa – prepatellar 
$259.35 
$259.35 
42 
L 
«CODE:623M» 
Excision of bursa – subacromial 
$175.00 
$157.50 
42 
L 
«CODE:624M» 
Excision of bursa – ischial 
$213.25 
$191.90 
42 
L 
 
«L3:Muscles» 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:630M» 
Quadriceps plasty 
$466.85 
$420.15 
42 
L 
«CODE:631M» 
Repair of ruptured limb muscle -- belly, origin, or insertion 
$197.10 
$177.40 
42 
L 
 
For lacerations – see 890L, 896L 
 
 
 
 


--- Page 255 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 255
 
 
S E C T I O N M – Orthopedic Surgery   
Specialist 
General    
Practitioner 
Class 
Anes 
 
«L3:Tendons, Tendon Sheaths and Fascia» 
 
 
 
 
 
«L4:Incision» 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:640M» 
Drainage of tendon sheath -- one digit 
$203.90 
$203.90 
42 
L 
«CODE:641M» 
Drainage of tendon sheath -- single palm and/or wrist, ulnar or radial 
bursa -- in hospital 
$259.35 
$233.45 
42 
L 
«CODE:642M» 
Injection of tendon sheath 
$29.70 
$29.70 
0 
L 
«CODE:643M» 
Incision of fibrous sheath of tendon for stenosing tenosynovitis 
$254.90 
$229.40 
42 
L 
«CODE:644M» 
Division of iliotibial band -- open reduction 
$175.80 
$158.25 
42 
L 
«CODE:645M» 
Ober-Yount fasciotomy, combine (or Souter procedure) with Spica 
cast, pins in tibia, wedging of casts, etc. – unilateral 
$912.20 
$821.00 
42 
L 
«CODE:647M» 
Stabilization of Chronically Subluxing Tendon (including all methods) - 
includes fibular groove deepening procedures (with or without suture 
anchors), tenotomies, synovectomy, and all other procedures on the 
same joint through the same or extended incision by any physician.  
$525.00 
$472.50 
42 
L 
«CODE:646M» 
Compartment Pressure Monitoring 
$100.00 
$90.00 
D 
L 
 
«L4:Hip adductors» 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:649M» 
Hip adductors -- unilateral – percutaneous 
$164.85 
$148.35 
42 
L 
«CODE:650M» 
Hip adductors -- unilateral – open 
$412.10 
$370.95 
42 
L 
«CODE:651M» 
Hip adductors -- bilateral – percutaneous 
$219.80 
$197.80 
42 
L 
«CODE:652M» 
Hip adductors -- bilateral – open 
$494.60 
$445.10 
42 
L 
«CODE:653M» 
Hip adductors -- unilateral - with peripheral obturator neurectomy 
$165.90 
$149.50 
42 
L 
«CODE:655M» 
Intrapelvic obturator neurectomy – unilateral 
$194.60 
$174.75 
42 
L 
«CODE:657M» 
Sever (or similar procedure) of shoulder for Erb's palsy 
$879.20 
$791.25 
42 
L 
 
«L4:Excision» 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:671M» 
Excision of lesion of tendon or fibrous sheath, or ganglion 
$259.35 
$259.35 
42 
L 
 
Radical excision of bursae, forearm viz. tenosynovitis, fungosa, Tbc., 
and other granulomas -- See 620M 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:673M» 
Excision of Baker's cyst 
$311.25 
$280.10 
42 
L 
«CODE:674M» 
Fasciotomy -- single -- palm or sole -- subcutaneous – blind 
$207.45 
$186.70 
42 
L 
«CODE:677M» 
Fasciectomy -- open -- plantar—unilateral 
$363.05 
$326.75 
42 
L 
«CODE:678M» 
Compartment syndrome release -- for trauma 
$400.00 
$360.00 
42 
L 
 
«L4:Repair» 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:680M» 
Tendon sheath reconstruction - insertion of silastic rod 
$331.30 
$297.70 
42 
L 
«CODE:681M» 
Tendon sheath reconstruction - insertion of silastic rod  - each 
additional 
$136.60 
$123.40 
42 
L 
«CODE:780M» 
Repair boutonniere deformity 
$161.10 
$144.80 
42 
L 
 
Repair or suture – extensor tendon 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:690M» 
Hand or foot -- distal to wrist or ankle -- single 
$280.40 
$280.40 
42 
L 
«CODE:691M» 
  -- each additional tendon -- foot -- bill units 
$152.90 
$152.90 
42 
L 
«CODE:692M» 
  -- each additional tendon -- hand -- bill units 
$280.40 
$280.40 
42 
L 
«CODE:693M» 
Forearm or leg – single 
$274.80 
$274.80 
42 
L 
«CODE:694M» 
  -- each additional tendon -- leg -- bill units 
$30.20 
$30.20 
42 
L 
«CODE:695M» 
  -- each additional tendon – forearm -- bill units 
$254.90 
$254.90 
42 
L 


--- Page 256 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 256
 
 
S E C T I O N M – Orthopedic Surgery   
Specialist 
General 
Practitioner 
Class 
Anes 
«CODE:696M» 
Repair or suture -- flexor tendon -- single unless otherwise listed 
$407.80 
$367.00 
42 
L 
«CODE:697M» 
Repair or suture -- flexor tendon -- each additional -- bill units 
$305.90 
$305.90 
42 
L 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Transfer or transplant of tendon – single 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:698M» 
Distal to elbow, distal to knee 
$409.00 
$368.15 
42 
L 
«CODE:700M» 
Distal to elbow, distal to knee -- each additional -- bill units 
$336.80 
$303.10 
42 
L 
«CODE:701M» 
Elbow or shoulder, knee or hip 
$440.90 
$396.85 
42 
L 
«CODE:702M» 
Elbow or shoulder, knee or hip -- each additional -- bill units 
$152.90 
$137.60 
42 
L 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:781M» 
Free extensor tendon graft -- single 
$400.00 
$360.00 
42 
L 
«CODE:782M» 
Free extensor tendon graft -- each additional -- bill units 
$209.00 
$188.10 
42 
L 
«CODE:703M» 
Free flexor tendon graft -- single 
$505.20 
$454.25 
42 
L 
«CODE:704M» 
Free flexor tendon graft -- each additional 
$219.80 
$197.80 
42 
L 
«CODE:705M» 
Tenolysis -- single – flexor 
$363.05 
$326.75 
42 
L 
«CODE:706M» 
Tenolysis -- each additional -- bill units 
$229.40 
$206.40 
42 
L 
«CODE:725M» 
Tenolysis -- single – extensor 
$259.35 
$233.45 
42 
L 
«CODE:726M» 
Tenolysis -- each additional -- bill units 
$203.90 
$183.50 
42 
L 
«CODE:727M» 
Tenodesis 
$409.00 
$409.00 
42 
L 
«CODE:707M» 
Lengthening or shortening tendon 
$311.25 
$280.10 
42 
L 
«CODE:708M» 
Opponens transfer 
$439.60 
$395.65 
42 
L 
«CODE:709M» 
Intrinsic transplant active or passive 
$275.85 
$248.35 
42 
L 
«CODE:710M» 
Intrinsic release (Littler) or incision 
$254.90 
$229.40 
42 
L 
«CODE:711M» 
Intrinsic release (Littler) or incision -- additional fingers -- bill units 
$164.85 
$148.35 
42 
L 
«CODE:712M» 
Free fascial graft for reconstruction tendon pulley or repair bowstring 
tendon -- single 
$305.90 
$275.30 
42 
L 
«CODE:714M» 
Abdominal fascial transplants – bilateral 
$307.75 
$276.95 
42 
L 
«CODE:716M» 
Ruptured quadriceps tendon – repair 
$550.00 
$494.95 
42 
L 
«CODE:481M» 
Ruptured patellar ligament – repair 
$467.25 
$420.50 
42 
L 
«CODE:721M» 
Ruptured patellar ligament or Achilles tendon -- repair with fascial or 
tendon graft 
$550.00 
$495.05 
42 
L 
«CODE:728M» 
Achilles Insertional Reconstruction with Bony Resection Calcaneus – 
includes reflection of Achilles insertion off calcaneus; excision of 
haglund exostosis; arthrodesis and arthroplasty of tarsal joints; 
capsulotomy/arthrotomy of calcaneal joints; all tenotomies, tendon 
lengthening and transfers; reattachment of Achilles with suture 
anchors, and all other procedures on the same joint through the 
same or extended incision by any physician.  
 
If procedure is done without bony resection, physicians are to submit 
billings using tenodesis (727M) - suture or screw anchor to bone.  
$750.00 
$675.00 
42 
M 
 


--- Page 257 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 257
 
 
S E C T I O N M – Orthopedic Surgery   
Specialist 
General 
Practitioner 
Class 
Anes 
«CODE:717M» 
Ruptured biceps tendon -- elbow – repair 
$550.00 
$494.95 
42 
L 
«CODE:718M» 
Flexor-plasty – elbow 
$457.90 
$412.05 
42 
L 
«CODE:719M» 
Repair ruptured supraspinatus tendon or musculotendinous 
shoulder cuff -- with or without acromioplasty 
$492.80 
$442.95 
42 
L 
«CODE:722M» 
Tenotomy – percutaneous 
$259.35 
$259.35 
10 
L 
«CODE:723M» 
Tenotomy – open 
$259.35 
$259.35 
10 
L 
«CODE:724M» 
Tenotomy -- each additional of either 722M or 723M -- bill units 
$144.30 
$144.30 
10 
L 
 
«L3:Extremities – Incision» 
 
 
 
«CODE:731M» 
Drainage of single infected space of hand (lumbrical, hypothenar, 
thenar, middle palmar, etc.) with or without tendon sheath 
involvement 
$356.80 
$321.10 
42 
«CODE:732M» 
Drainage of multiple infected spaces of hand with or without tendon 
sheath involvement 
$560.70 
$504.70 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«L3:Amputation – Upper Extremity»  
 
 
 
 
«CODE:740M» 
Amputation - Interthoracoscapular 
$778.00 
$700.25 
42 
M 
«CODE:741M» 
Amputation - Disarticulation of shoulder 
$778.00 
$700.25 
42 
M 
«CODE:742M» 
Amputation - Arm through humerus 
$814.00 
$732.65 
42 
M 
«CODE:743M» 
Amputation - Forearm, through radius and ulna 
$721.70 
$649.60 
42 
M 
«CODE:745M» 
Amputation - Forearm, through radius and ulna -- with subsequent 
revision or reamputation 
$778.00 
$700.25 
42 
M 
«CODE:746M» 
Amputation - Cineplasty -- complete procedure 
$315.40 
$283.50 
42 
M 
«CODE:747M» 
Amputation - Disarticulation of wrist 
$778.00 
$700.25 
42 
M 
«CODE:748M» 
Amputation - Hand, through metacarpal bones 
$721.70 
$649.60 
42 
M 
«CODE:749M» 
Amputation - Metacarpal, with finger or thumb, one with split or 
Wolff graft, or skin-plasty and/or tenodesis with definitive resection 
palmar digital nerves 
$721.70 
$649.60 
42 
L 
«CODE:750M» 
Amputation - Finger, any joint, or phalanx, one -- with split or Wolff 
graft, or skin-plasty and/or tenodesis, with definitive resection volar 
digital nerves 
$407.80 
$407.80 
10 
L 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«L3:Amputation – Lower Extremity» 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:760M» 
Amputation - Interpelviabdominal 
$717.60 
$646.25 
42 
H 
«CODE:761M» 
Amputation - Disarticulation of hip 
$1,044.05 
$939.70 
42 
M 
«CODE:762M» 
Amputation - Disarticulation of knee 
$599.50 
$539.45 
42 
M 
«CODE:763M» 
Amputation - Thigh through femur, including supracondylar 
$665.00 
$598.40 
42 
M 
«CODE:765M» 
Amputation - high through femur, including supracondylar -- 
Revision or reamputation 
$134.80 
$121.40 
42 
M 
«CODE:766M» 
Amputation - Leg, through tibia and fibula 
$814.00 
$732.65 
42 
M 
«CODE:768M» 
Amputation - Leg, through tibia and fibula - Revision or 
reamputation 
$134.80 
$121.40 
42 
M 
«CODE:769M» 
Amputation - Ankle (Syme, Pirogoff) -- with skin-plasty and resection 
nerves 
$814.00 
$732.60 
42 
M 
 


--- Page 258 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 258
 
 
S E C T I O N M – Orthopedic Surgery   
Specialist 
General 
Practitioner 
Class 
Anes 
«CODE:770M» 
Amputation - Foot – transmetatarsal 
$814.00 
$732.65 
42 
M 
«CODE:771M» 
Amputation - Midtarsal 
$814.00 
$732.65 
42 
M 
«CODE:772M» 
Amputation - Metatarsal, with toe, split or Wolff graft or skin-plasty 
and/or tenodesis, with definitive resection digital nerves 
$414.90 
$373.40 
42 
L 
«CODE:774M» 
Amputation - Toe, any joint or phalanx, one -- with split or Wolff graft, or 
skin -- plasty and/or tenodesis, with definitive resection digital nerves 
$311.25 
$311.25 
10 
L 
 
 
«L3:Plaster Casts» 
 
 
 
 
1. Service codes 800M to 822M are payable in conjunction with a 
consultation, complete assessment, or initial assessment service 
when the physician personally applies the cast.  
2. Payment may be made for the reapplication of casts after the 
discharge of a hospital in patient but not on the day of surgery.  
 
 
3. Finger or toe -- bill as a visit fee. 
 
 
 
«CODE:800M» 
Plaster casts -- forearm 
$47.45 
$47.45 
0 
«CODE:801M» 
Plaster casts -- elbow to fingers 
$47.45 
$47.45 
0 
«CODE:802M» 
Plaster casts -- hand or wrist 
$45.80 
$45.80 
0 
«CODE:803M» 
Plaster casts -- shoulder to hand 
$50.90 
$50.90 
0 
«CODE:804M» 
Plaster casts -- shoulder Spica 
$50.90 
$50.90 
0 
«CODE:805M» 
Plaster casts -- ankle (foot to midleg) 
$50.90 
$50.90 
0 
«CODE:806M» 
Plaster casts -- knee (foot to thigh) 
$50.90 
$50.90 
0 
«CODE:808M» 
Ambulatory leg cast 
$50.90 
$50.90 
0 
«CODE:809M» 
Molded plaster to leg 
$77.85 
$77.85 
0 
«CODE:810M» 
Spica -- unilateral (rib margin to toe) 
$544.60 
$544.60 
0 
«CODE:812M» 
Plaster casts -- body -- shoulder to hip 
$274.80 
$247.30 
0 
«CODE:813M» 
Plaster casts -- body -- including head 
$64.65 
$64.65 
0 
«CODE:814M» 
Unna boot 
$53.05 
$53.05 
0 
«CODE:815M» 
Wedging of cast 
$51.90 
$51.90 
0 
«CODE:820M» 
Risser, or similar, cast for scoliosis 
$544.60 
$490.15 
0 
«CODE:821M» 
Halo cast 
$167.00 
$150.25 
42 
«CODE:822M» 
Application of hinged brace on knee cast -- composite fee for brace and 
$58.20 
$58.20 
0 
«CODE:825M» 
Cast removal (when physician personally removes the cast) 
$15.60 
$15.60 
0 
 
«L3:Bracing» 
 
a) Billable only when the physician personally applies the brace.  
b) Adjustments performed by the physician are billed as 
visits/assessments.  
c) Billable by only one physician once per brace. 
 
 
 
«CODE:830M» 
Thoracolumbar brace for spine deformity 
$238.60 
$214.70 
0 
 
 
 
 
 


--- Page 259 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 259
 
«L1:S E C T I O N  N – Plastic Surgery»     
    Specialist in Plastic 
Surgery 
 
 
Referred 
Not  
Referred 
 
 
 
 
 
«L2:Visits» 
 
 
«CODE:5N*» 
Initial assessment -- of a specific condition includes:  
$60.00 
$48.50 
 
a) 
pertinent family history; 
b) patient history; 
c) 
history of presenting complaint; 
d) functional enquiry; 
e) 
examination of affected part(s) or system(s); 
f) diagnosis; 
g) assessment; 
h) necessary treatment; 
i) advice to the patient; and, 
j) record of service provided. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:7N*» 
Follow-up assessment -- includes:  
$51.05 
$51.05 
 
a) 
history review;  
b) functional enquiry; 
c) 
examination; 
d) reassessment; 
e) necessary treatment;  
f) advice to the patient; and, 
g) record of service provided. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:9N*» 
Consultation – includes: 
$102.20 
 
 
a) 
all visits necessary; 
b) history and examination; 
c) 
review of laboratory and/or other data;  
d) written submission of the consultant's opinion; and,  
e) recommendations to the referring doctor. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:11N*» 
Repeat Consultation 
$54.80 
 
 
A formal consultation for the same or related condition repeated within 90 days by the 
same physician.  Repeat consultation is only to be billed when it is generated by a new 
formal request by the referring physician. It should not be used for routine follow-up of 
the patient for which service code 7N "follow-up assessment" is appropriate. 
 
 
 
* 
Payment for patients 0-5 years of age and patients 65 years of age and older are 
automatically applied. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:13N» 
Written advice to referring physician on the management of a case based upon review of 
x-rays by Plastic Surgeon -- payable once per case 
$52.00 
$41.60@ 
 
@  Payment approved for a physician with training and expertise in this section 
 
 


--- Page 260 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 260
 
 
S E C T I O N  N – Plastic Surgery     
    Specialist in Plastic 
Surgery 
 
 
Referred 
Not  
Referred 
 
«L2:Hospital Care – Payable on day of admission»  
 
 
 
 
 
Hospital care is billable by the physician responsible for inpatient care of patients admitted to 
hospital. Hospital care includes all of the routine services required to manage in hospital 
care. Additional services provided as a result of an acute episode may be payable with an 
explanation.  
 
 
 
 
 
Post-operative hospital care is included in the surgical fee and can only be paid if hospital 
care is provided by another physician for a condition unrelated to the surgery. Upon transfer 
of hospital care to another physician, billing of hospital care should be as if there was a 
continuation of care under the same physician. An assessment or consultation may not be 
billed when hospital care is transferred to another physician. 
 
 
 
 
 
Hospital care may be billed for short term acute care patients who are admitted to a health 
centre in the same manner as an acute care hospital. Physicians may not use hospital care to 
cover in-hospital patients who are designated as long-term care. These patients are to be 
billed under codes 627A-629A – Special Care Home Management. 
 
 
 
«CODE:25N» 
-- 1-10 days 
-- per day -- bill units (max 10) 
$40.00 
$40.00 
«CODE:26N» 
-- 11-20 days 
-- per day -- bill units (max 10) 
$34.30 
$34.30 
«CODE:27N» 
-- 21-30 days 
-- per day -- bill units (max 10) 
$34.30 
$34.30 
«CODE:28N» 
-- 31 days and thereafter 
-- per day -- bill units (max 99) 
$34.30 
$34.30 
 
 
 
 
 
«L2:VIRTUAL CARE SERVICES»  
 
 
 
Please see Virtual Care preamble in the introductory section of the Payment Schedule for 
more information. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:807N» 
Virtual follow-up assessment provided via telephone or secure videoconference-- includes: 
$45.95 
$45.95 
 
a) history review; 
 
 
 
b) functional enquiry; 
 
 
 
c) reassessment;  
 
 
 
d) necessary treatment;  
 
 
 
e) advice to the patient; and  
 
 
 
f) 
record of service provided. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:809N» 
Virtual consultation provided via telephone or secure videoconference-- includes: 
$92.00 
 
 
a) all visits necessary;  
 
 
 
b) history; 
 
 
 
c) review of laboratory and/or other data; 
 
 
 
d) written submission of the consultant's opinion; and 
 
 
 
e) recommendations to the referring doctor. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:811N» 
Repeat virtual consultation provided via telephone or secure videoconference: 
$49.35 
 
 
A formal virtual consultation for the same or related condition repeated within 90 days by 
the same physician. Repeat virtual consultation is only to be billed when it is generated by a 
new formal request by the referring physician. It should not be used for routine virtual 
follow-up of the patient for which service code '807N' "Virtual follow-up assessment" is 
appropriate. 
 
 
 
 
 
```

«L1:S E C T I O N  N – Plastic Surgery»

«L2:Surgery of Appearance»

Preamble

Surgery to restore or improve function altered by disease, trauma or congenital deformity is insured. 
Surgery to alter appearance is insured for certain facial and nonfacial abnormalities due to disease, trauma or 
congenital defect as listed below. 
The surgeon is invited to communicate with Saskatchewan Health pre-operatively in situations where insurability may 
be in question. 
Specific criteria for insurability in the most common conditions are outlined below. 

«L3:Face and Neck»

1. 
Revision of scars due to trauma, disease, or surgery is insured. Revision of scars resulting from cosmetic 
surgery is insured only in the case of post-operative complications. 
2. 
Correction of functionally disabling or disfiguring abnormalities of deep structures due to disease, trauma or 
congenital defect is insured. 
3. 
Repair of traumatic or disease induced hair loss is insured. Medical or surgical therapy for familial hair loss is 
uninsured. 
4. 
Correction of facial or neck deformity due to aging is uninsured. 

5. 
Repair of protruding or congenitally deformed ears is insured under the age of 18. For those 18 and over, 
repair is insured under exceptional circumstances such as early unwarranted parental opposition, 
unavailability of service, financial limitations, etc. 
6. 
Rhinoplasty is insured if the nasal malformation is due to trauma, disease, neoplasm, or birth defect. 

Rhinoplasty to alter appearance due to a familial trait or aging is uninsured. 

Rhinoplasty for appearance, when done with a septoplasty, is uninsured and the costs of the former are the 
responsibility of the patient. 
8. 
Ablation of facial or neck port-wine stain by dye tuned laser is insured under the age of 18. Pre-authorization 
required for other symptomatic or bleeding cutaneous angiomata for individuals over the age of 18. 

«L2:Procedures»
Additional payments for diagnostic service excluding ECGs, 0, 10 or 42 day operative procedures performed on patients 
under one (1) year of age are automatically calculated and paid as explained in Section A. 

«L3:Other Body Areas»

1. 
Scar revision is insured if scars cause a functional disability, are painful, are unstable, or if revision is part of a 
pre-planned staged reconstructive procedure. 

Scar revision is also insured if there is a history of post-operative complication or condition affecting wound 
healing. 

2. 
The injection of keloids is only insured when symptomatic (pain, ulceration, etc.) or causing functional 
impairment. 

3. 
Tattoo ablation or excision is insured only if it has been placed involuntarily. Otherwise, cost of removal is the 
responsibility of the patient. 

4. 
Augmentation mammoplasty is insured for congenital or post-surgical amastia. If unilateral augmentation 
mammoplasty is done for the above reasons or if an oncoplastic reconstruction for breast cancer is performed, 
then a balancing operation such as augmentation, reduction, or mastopexy is insured for the opposite breast, 
when performed under the same anesthetic as the operation for the other breast. 

Augmentation mammoplasty may be insured for a severely hypoplastic breast where the second breast is not 
hypoplastic, subject to prior approval by MSB Medical Consultant(s).  

5. 
Reduction mammoplasty is insured if, due to the size of the breast, there are symptoms such as, painful 
shoulder grooves, intertrigo, breast pain, backache, or significant posture changes. 

Reduction mammoplasty is insured if there is significant size discrepancy between the breasts. 

6. 
Abdominal panniculectomy (354N) is insured when: 

a) 
The patient has experienced weight loss with a previous body mass index (BMI) of at least 40 or  
greater; AND, 

b) 
Has a current BMI of 30 or less; AND, 

c) 
Has maintained this weight for a period of no less than 12 months; AND, 

d) 
Has a chronic and recurrent skin condition (cellulitis, skin necrosis, ulcers) which has failed to respond 
to (or be managed by) conservative medical treatment for 6 months of medically supervised therapy. 

The following conditions are not indications for abdominal panniculectomy: back pain, multiple gestations, 
previous cesarean section, tethered abdominal scars, postural changes or rectus diastasis.   

Abdominal panniculectomy is only insured by prior approval with submission of pictures and a "Prior Approval 
Request Form" which can be found at: 

https://www.ehealthsask.ca/services/resources/establish-operate-practice/Pages/Physicians.aspx 
  
7. 
Spider vein (telangiectasia) treatment by injection, excision, thermal ablation, or laser therapy is not insured. 
Treatment of symptomatic varicose veins is insured. 

«CODE:32N» Removal of interdental and/or intermaxillary wiring and/or arch bar $70.00 $70.00 0 L 

«L2:Treatment of Soft Tissue Injury – grafts, burns, wounds»

«L3:Grafts (100N to 111N, 241N to 244N, and 280N)»

a) Grafting codes 100N to 111N, 241N to 244N and 280N are 
on referral to a plastic surgeon, otolaryngologist, 
ophthalmologist or urologist. 

b) Multiple body areas for the above service codes are 
eligible for payment at 100% of the listed payment when 
performed on different body areas. 

Defects: 

a) Resection of tissue, meticulous suture technique, multiple 
tie-overs and other fixation. 

Body Areas: 

a) One body area is defined as:  face, neck, scalp, chest, 
abdomen, back, upper arm, forearm, hand, genitalia, 
buttock, thigh, lower leg and foot. 

b) Only one code per body area is billable. 

c) When claiming for multiple debridements of the same 
body area, add the size of all individual debridements and 
submit as a single total debridement under the 
appropriate code. 

d) If multiples of the same code or any combination of codes 
(grafts, burns, or wounds) are billed, there must be a 
comment on the electronic claim identifying which body 
area(s) are/is involved. 

«L4:Split Thickness Grafts»

«CODE:100N»   -- less than 26 sq. cm  $255.00  10 L 
«CODE:103N»   -- 26 to 103 sq. cm   $500.00  42 L 
«CODE:105N»   -- 103 to 350 sq. cm   $700.00  42 M 
«CODE:107N»   -- more than 350 sq cm $800.00  42 M 
«CODE:109N» Finger -- split graft of skin – plasty  $300.00  42 L 
«CODE:111N» Mesh grafting - paid in addition to split thickness grafts when 2 or 
more carriers are meshed $103.00  42 L 

«L4:Full Thickness Grafts»

«CODE:241N» Free graft, full thickness, facial (eyelids, canthi, alae of nose, ears) $400.00  10 L 
«CODE:242N» Free graft, full thickness, other -- less than 5 sq. cm. $310.00  10 L 
«CODE:243N» Free graft, full thickness, other -- over 5 sq. cm. and up to 10 sq. cm. $385.00  42 L 
«CODE:244N» Free graft, full thickness, other -- more than 10 sq. cm. $460.00  42 L 
«CODE:280N» Composite graft (full thickness of external ear) $270.20  42 L 

«L3:Burns (120N to 125N, 130N, 132N)»

a) 
Initial management of severe burns ‐‐ bill under 918A according 
to time 

b) 
Only billable for burn diagnosis (ICD diagnostic codes 940-949) 

c) 
Subsequent dressings and surgical debridements for severe 
burn patients per 5% body surface area up to a total of 100% 
body surface area 

d) 
Fees do not include grafting or other treatments. If grafting is 
done at the same time as debridement then grafting codes 
should be used alone. 

Body Areas: 

a) One body area is defined as:  face, neck, scalp, chest, 
abdomen, back, upper arm, forearm, hand, genitalia, 
buttock, thigh, lower leg and foot. 

b) When claiming for multiple debridements of the same body 
area, add the size of all individual debridements and submit 
as a single total debridement under the appropriate code. 

c) If multiples of the same code or any combination of codes 
(grafts, burns, or wounds) are billed, there must be a 
comment on the electronic claim identifying which body 
area(s) are/is involved 

«L4:Burns - Surgical Debridement and/or Dressings - without anesthesia or under local anesthesia»

«CODE:120N» --  per 5% total body surface area (TBSA), bill units $50.00 $50.00 0  

«L4:Burns - Surgical Debridement – under general anesthesia, including dressings»

«CODE:123N» --  initial 5% total body surface area (TBSA) $50.00 $50.00 0 L 
«CODE:125N» -- each additional 5% or major part thereof – add, bill units  $40.00 $40.00 0 L 

«L4:Escharotomy»

«CODE:130N»  -- all body areas other than trunk, per escharotomy site $163.10 $146.80 42 L 
«CODE:132N» -- trunk, per escharotomy site $121.30 $109.10 42 L 

«L3:Wounds (140N-144N, 382N, 383N, 420N, 421N)»

a) Wound repair codes (140N-144N, 382N and 383N) are on 
referral to a plastic surgeon. 

Body Areas: 

a) One body area is defined as:  face, neck, scalp, chest, 
abdomen, back, upper arm, forearm, hand, genitalia, 
buttock, thigh, lower leg and foot. 

b) Only one code per body area is billable (140N-144N) 

c) When claiming for multiple debridements of the same body 
area, add the size of all individual debridements and submit 
as a single total debridement under the appropriate code. 

d) If multiples of the same code or any combination of codes 
(grafts, burns, or wounds) are billed, there must be a 
comment on the electronic claim identifying which body 
area(s) are/is involved 

«L4:Wound Debridement»

• Under general or regional anesthesia 

• Not requiring skin grafting/flap at same time 

«CODE:140N» -- Less than 65 sq cm, any body area $185.50  42 L 
«CODE:142N» -- 65 to 103 sq cm, any body area $300.00  42 L 
«CODE:144N» -- Greater than 103 sq cm, any body area $542.00  42 L 

«L4:Wound Repair - Face»

• Single or multiple 

«CODE:382N» -- up to 5 cm  $200.00  10 L 
«CODE:383N» -- each additional 2.5 cm, bill units  $145.00  10 L 

«L4:Wound Management»

«CODE:420N» Vacuum assisted wound management – when set-up completed by a 
physician - setup, initial $150.00 $150.00   L 
«CODE:421N» Vacuum assisted wound management – when set-up completed by a 
physician - Follow‐up (includes visit) $80.00 $71.95    

«L2:Flaps or Tubes of Skin from a Distance»

«CODE:252N» Major stage(s) -- 
raising of large direct flap or tube pedicle with 
closure of donor area $300.00 $270.45 42 L 

«CODE:253N» Major stage(s) -- 
raising of large direct flap or tube pedicle and  
skin graft to donor area $395.60 $356.00 42 L 

«CODE:254N» Minor stage(s) -- 
transposition of pedicle -- intermediate  
transfer or sectioning of pedicle with direct 
closure $300.00 $270.70 42 L 

«CODE:255N» Minor stage(s) -- 
transposition of pedicle -- delay of pedicle $300.00 $270.00 42 L 
«CODE:256N» Muscle flap with skin graft $1,500.00 $1,350.00 42 M 
«CODE:257N» Myocutaneous flaps with donor closure $1,400.00 $1,260.00 42 M 
«CODE:258N» Myocutaneous flaps with skin grafts to donor area $1,500.00 $1,350.00 42 M 
«CODE:250N» Fasciocutaneous flap -- greater than 19 sq. cm - with donor closure $1,020.00 $918.05 42 M 
«CODE:251N» Fasciocutaneous flap -- greater than 19 sq. cm  - with skin graft to 
donor area $1,225.00 $1,102.55 42 M 
«CODE:361N» Neurovascular pedicle flap $524.00 $471.50 42 M 
«CODE:440N» Transverse rectus abdominis myocutaneous flap for breast 
reconstruction $1,223.40 $1,101.10 42 M 

«L2:Excision and/or Repair by Adjacent Tissue Transfer or Rearrangement i.e. Z-plasty, rotation flap, advanced flap, double pedicle flap, etc.»

«CODE:260N» Defect up to 6 sq. cm. -- trunk $250.00 $225.00 42 L 
«CODE:261N» Defect up to 6 sq. cm. --  scalp, arms, legs $255.00 $229.50 42 L 
«CODE:262N» Defect up to 6 sq. cm. --  forehead, cheeks, chin, mouth, neck, 
axilla, genitalia, feet, hands $295.00 $265.50 42 L 
«CODE:263N» Defect up to 6 sq. cm. --  eyelids, nose, ears, lips $350.00 $315.00 42 L 
«CODE:264N» Defect 7-19 sq. cm. -- trunk $300.00 $270.00 42 L 
«CODE:265N» Defect 7-19 sq. cm. --  scalp, arms, legs $335.00 $301.50 42 L 
«CODE:266N» Defect 7-19 sq. cm. --  forehead, cheeks, chin, mouth, neck, 
axilla, genitalia, hands, feet $390.00 $351.00 42 L 
«CODE:267N» Defect 7-19 sq. cm. -- eyelids, ears, nose, lips $430.00 $387.00 42 L 
«CODE:268N» Defect more than 19 sq. cm. -- unusual or complicated, by report $550.00 $495.00 42 L 
«CODE:371N» Syndactyly -- release with flaps $335.00 $301.55 42 L 
«CODE:372N» Syndactyly -- release with flaps and skin grafts $510.00 $459.00 42 L 
«CODE:659N» Lymphedema excision -- major excision and grafting By report 42 M 

Minor excision – use 260N – 268N 

«L3:Eyelids»

«L4:Full thickness excision and repair by advancement flaps»

«CODE:270N»   -- up to 1/4 of eyelid margin $213.10 $191.70 42 L 
«CODE:271N»   -- over 1/4 of eyelid margin $253.90 $228.40 42 L 
«CODE:272N» By transfer flaps of tarso conjunctiva from opposing eyelid $257.90 $232.40 42 L 

«L3:Transplantation of Tissues Other than Skin»

«CODE:281N» Mucous membrane graft $181.50 $163.10 42 L 
«CODE:283N» Fascia grafts for facial nerve paralysis $458.80 $412.90 42 L 
«CODE:285N» Slings for ptosis $307.90 $277.30 42 L 
«CODE:286N» Cartilage -- autogenous transplant $360.00 $324.15 42 L 
«CODE:287N» Bone -- autogenous transplant -- nose, chin, orbit, forehead $480.00 $431.90 42 M 

«L3:Abrasive Surgery»

«L4:Facial resurfacing -- total face for removal of scars, etc.»

«CODE:290N» Mechanical – primary $284.40 $255.90 42 L 
«CODE:291N» Mechanical – secondary $140.70 $126.40 42 L 
«CODE:292N» Regional, cheeks, chin, forehead or elsewhere -- any method 
including laser $90.70 $81.60 42 L 

«L3:Nose»

«CODE:300N» Rhinoplasty $458.80 $412.90 42 M 
«CODE:301N» Rhinoplasty with septoplasty or submucous resection $600.00 $540.60 42 M 
«CODE:305N» Bone graft with 300N and 301N – add $220.00 $198.20 42 L 
«CODE:302N» Rhinophyma -- removal by shaving $240.60 $216.10 42 L 
«CODE:303N» Silastic implant -- when only procedure $181.50 $163.10 42 L 

«L3:Ear»

«CODE:310N» Preauricular fistula $146.80 $132.50 42 L 
«CODE:311N» Protruding ears -- otoplasty – unilateral $350.00 $315.50 42 L 
«CODE:313N» Segmental ear resection $175.00 $157.20 42 L 

«L3:Cleft Lip and Cleft Palate»

«CODE:320N» Plastic repair of cleft lip -- primary – unilateral $790.00 $711.00 42 M 
«CODE:323N» Plastic repair of cleft lip -- secondary - by recreation of defect and  $790.00 $711.00 42 M 
 closure 
«CODE:325N» Repair of nasal deformity due to cleft lip $400.00 $360.00 42 M 
«CODE:326N» Plastic operation for cleft palate -- partial – primary $765.00 $688.55 42 M 
«CODE:327N» Plastic operation for cleft palate -- complete – primary $940.00 $846.00 42 M 
«CODE:328N» Plastic operation for cleft palate -- major revision – secondary $960.00 $864.00 42 M 
«CODE:329N» Palate -- pharyngoplasty $500.00 $450.00 42 M 

«L3:Lips, Cheeks and Jaw»

«CODE:330N» Vermilionectomy or gingivectomy $285.00 $256.95 42 L 
«CODE:331N» Transverse wedge excision, lip $205.00 $184.50 42 L 
«CODE:631N» Rectangular or square through and through resection of lower lip $400.00 $360.00 42 L 
«CODE:332N» Radical resection of lip -- 1/2 or more with primary reconstruction $383.30 $344.60 42 M 
«CODE:333N» Total reconstruction of lip $551.50 $496.50 42 M 
«CODE:634N» LeFort I osteotomy of maxilla $922.60 $830.90 42 M 
«CODE:635N» LeFort I osteotomy of maxilla -- with bone grafting $1,031.70 $928.80 42 M 
«CODE:336N» Excision of cyst of dental origin -- intraoral approach - under 1 cm $40.00 $36.00 42 M 
«CODE:337N» Excision of cyst of dental origin -- intraoral approach - 1-2.5 cm $131.00 $117.80 42 M 
«CODE:338N» Excision of cyst of dental origin -- intraoral approach - over 2.5 cm $214.10 $192.70 42 M 
«CODE:339N» Interposed bone-graft augmentation of atrophic mandible $710.60 $639.20 42 M 

«L3:Fractures of the Facial Bones»

«CODE:340N» Nose -- intranasal reduction and splinting $255.00 $229.50 42 M 
«CODE:341N» Nose -- total refracture and fixation $256.90 $231.40 42 M 
«CODE:342N» Mandible -- interdental wiring (horizontal) $255.00 $229.50 42 M 
«CODE:343N» Mandible -- intermaxillary wiring including interdental wiring $615.00 $553.45 42 M 
«CODE:344N» Mandible -- open reduction of single fracture, excluding interdental or 
intermaxillary wiring $550.00 $495.00 42 M 
«CODE:345N» Mandible -- multiple compound or comminuted fractures excluding 
interdental or intermaxillary wiring $685.00 $616.50 42 M 
«CODE:346N» Maxilla -- displaced -- open reduction $715.00 $643.50 42 M 
«CODE:347N» Maxilla -- open reduction with antrostomy (Caldwell Luc/packing) $375.20 $337.50 42 M 
«CODE:348N» Malar bone and zygomatic arch open elevation or temporal approach 
(Gillies) $410.00 $369.00 42 M 
«CODE:349N» Complete facial smash with cranial facial separation, complicated, open 
reduction, multiple surgical approaches, internal fixation, wiring teeth, 
etc By Report 42 M 

«L3:Trunk»

«CODE:350N» Mammoplasty reduction – unilateral $770.00 $693.00 42 M 
«CODE:352N» Breast augmentation -- prosthetic – unilateral $493.05 $444.70 42 L 
«CODE:~395N» Oncoplastic reconstruction, breast – unilateral when performed at the 
same time as the lumpectomy or segmental resection for breast cancer $625.00 $562.50 42 M 

 @ Payment approved for General Surgeons with advanced fellowship 
training in oncoplastic surgery as approved by the Saskatchewan Medical 
Association (SMA) Tariff Committee. 

For the purposes of billing, 395N is billable on the date that the approval 
is granted to the physician.  See "Services Billable by Entitlement" 

«CODE:396N» Balancing operation – contralateral breast. This fee is inclusive of all 
procedures on the contralateral side. Payable only when the ipsilateral 
breast has been operated on for congenital/post-surgical amastia or 
breast cancer. $650.00 $573.70 42 M 
«CODE:400N» Subcutaneous tissue space expander -- implantation $650.00 $573.60 42 L 
«CODE:401N» Subcutaneous tissue space expander -- removal (including replacement 
by prosthesis) $650.00 $573.60 42 L 
«CODE:430N» Nipple reconstruction, post mastectomy $360.00 $324.00 42 L 
«CODE:431N» Repair of inverted nipple $180.00 $162.55 42 L 
«CODE:432N» Removal of single breast prosthesis $197.85 $178.05 42 L 
«CODE:433N» Removal of single breast prosthesis with capsulectomy and/or skin plasty $320.00 $288.00 42 L 
«CODE:354N» Abdominal panniculectomy – by prior approval – see criteria  $600.00 $539.95 42 L 

page  226, item (5) 

«CODE:355N» Decubitus ulcer -- repair by excision of bursa and underlying bone with 
rotation flap -- total care $1,350.00 $1,214.95 42 M 
«CODE:360N» Removal of axillary sweat glands (unilateral) $245.00 $220.45 42 L 

«L3:Extremities»

«CODE:362N» Phalangization $253.90 $228.40 42 L 
«CODE:363N» Pollicization $473.00 $426.20 42 M 
«CODE:364N» Cross finger flap -- total care $280.40 $252.30 42 L 
«CODE:365N» Transposition of digit $262.00 $235.50 42 L 
«CODE:366N» Needle aponeurotomy release - prominent Dupuytren's band, unilateral 
Not billable in multiples on the same hand when more than one cord or 
finger is treated at the same patient contact. $225.00 $202.50 42 L 
«CODE:367N» Palmar fasciectomy for Dupuytren's contracture – primary $565.00 $508.55 42 L 
«CODE:368N» Dupuytren's contracture – recurrent $665.00 $598.45 42 L 
«CODE:369N» Thumb, MCP joint -- collateral ligament reconstruction, by local tissue 
rearrangement $400.00 $360.00 42 L 
«CODE:370N» Thumb, MCP joint -- collateral ligament reconstruction, using tendon 
graft $534.00 $481.45 42 L 

«L3:Skin - Miscellaneous»

«CODE:380N» Excision of lesion, benign -- facial on referral $106.00 $95.40 10 L 

Benign -- non-facial (see Section L) 

Codes 684N and 685N are for removal of lesions that are confirmed or 
suspected as malignant and require a wide-excision and suture at the 
time the procedure was performed. 

«CODE:684N» Excision of lesion, malignant , by wide excision and suture, non-facial $164.00 $147.60 10 L 
«CODE:685N» Excision of lesion, malignant, by wide excision and suture ,  facial (not 
including neck and scalp) $200.00 $180.00 10 L 

For excision of malignant skin lesions with skin graft or flap repair  -- use 
appropriate codes 

«CODE:410N» Percutaneous inflation of tissue expander, first  $50.00 $50.00 0 L 
«CODE:411N» Percutaneous inflation of tissue expander,  each additional expander, 
per patient contact, same day – maximum of 3, bill units  $20.00 $20.00 0 L 

«L2:Assessment Rules for Microvascular Surgery (500N-506N)»:

1. Codes apply only when provided by a recognized microvascular 
surgeon. 

2. Codes 500N and501N are payable only once per anatomical site.   

3. Codes 503N to 506N are dependent on the necessary REQUIRED 
blood flow for adequate microvascular success. 

4. Normal surgical rules do not apply for the following:  
a) if multiple sites, payment is at 100% per site;  
b) combination of discrete codes within the group (500N - 
506N) are payable at 100%;  
c) if initial vascularization fails and a second attempt is 
necessary, no payment will be made for the repeat 
procedure at the same surgical time of the initial attempt; 
take-back surgeries performed at separate times for 
revascularization are paid at 75%. 

5. The 75% rule would apply for amputation where all attempts to 
revascularize fail. 

6. Code 502N is not payable with 500N or 501N. 

«CODE:~500N» Preparation and harvesting of graft and closure of donor site $1,300.00 $1,169.95 42 H 
«CODE:~501N» Preparation of distant recipient site including repair of nerves, 
tendons, bones and skin $1,300.00 $1,169.95 42 H 
«CODE:~502N» Preparation of adjacent donor and recipient sites including repair of 
nerves, tendons, bones and skin $1,500.00 $1,349.95 42 H 
«CODE:~503N» Revascularization -- arterial $900.00 $810.00 42 H 
«CODE:~504N» Revascularization -- arterial -- with vein graft $1,100.00 $990.00 42 H 
«CODE:~505N» Revascularization -- venous $900.00 $810.00 42 H 
«CODE:~506N» Revascularization -- venous -- with graft $1,100.00 $990.00 42 H 

@  Payment approved for a physician with training and expertise in 
this section 

«CODE:580N» BMI Supplement – Plastic surgery supplement for patients with a 
Body Mass Index (BMI), (Weight [kg]/Height [m]2) greater than 40 $65.00   

1. Maximum of one (1) 580N supplement per patient per day;  
2. Supplement 580N may be billed by plastic surgeons with all N 
Section procedures done in the operating room; 
3. BMI supplements are not payable to the surgical assistant 
billing "J" section codes.

Looking at these 10 pages of content from Section O (Physical Medicine) and Section P (Obstetrics & Gynecology), I'll apply the tagging convention systematically.

--- Page 271 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 271
 
 
«L1:S E C T I O N  O – Physical Medicine»    
Specialist in Physical 
Medicine 
 
 
Referred 
Not  
Referred 
 
«L2:Visits»
 
 
«CODE:3O» 
Complete assessment -- includes: 
$115.00* 
$91.90* 
 
a) pertinent family history; 
b) patient history, history of 
presenting complaint; 
c) functional enquiry; 
d) examination of all parts and 
systems; 
e) diagnosis; 
f) 
assessment; 
g) necessary treatment; 
h) advice to the patient; and,  
i) 
record of service provided. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:5O» 
Partial assessment or subsequent visit -- includes:  
$99.00* 
$79.20* 
 
a) history review; 
b) history of presenting complaint; 
c) functional enquiry; 
d) examination of affected part(s) 
or system(s); 
e) diagnosis; 
f) 
assessment; 
g) necessary treatment; 
h) advice to the patient; and, 
i) 
record of service provided. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:9O» 
Consultation – includes: 
a) all visits necessary; 
b) history and examination; 
c) review of laboratory and/or other data; 
d) written submission of the consultant's opinion; and, 
e) recommendations to the referring doctor. 
$212.40* 
 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:11O» 
Repeat consultation 
$130.00* 
 
 
A formal consultation for the same or related condition repeated within 90 days by the 
same physician.  Repeat consultation is only to be billed when it is generated by a new 
formal request by the referring physician. It should not be used for routine follow-up of 
the patient for which either service code '5' "partial assessment or subsequent review" or 
service code '7' "follow-up assessment" are appropriate. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:14O» 
Hospital Inpatient Consultation – includes: 
a) all visits necessary;  
b) history and examination; 
c) review of laboratory and/or other data;  
d) written submission of the consultant's opinion; and,  
e) recommendations to the referring doctor. 
$280.00* 
 
 
 
* 
Payment for patients 0-5 years of age and patients 65 years of age and older are 
automatically applied. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«L2:Case Conference»
 
 
 
1. Must be a formal scheduled session.  
 
 
 
2. A single conference fee billed in the name of one patient covers all the patients 
reviewed at the conference. A maximum of six case conferences per patient per 
year is billable.  
 
 
 
3. The physician should keep appropriate documentation of time and place. 
 
 
«CODE:42O» 
-- per conference (not patient) -- first 30 minutes or part thereof 
$104.05 
$104.05 
«CODE:44O» 
-- add to 42O for each additional 15 minutes or part thereof 
$52.05 
$52.05 


--- Page 272 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 272
 
 
S E C T I O N  O – Physical Medicine    
Specialist in Physical 
Medicine 
 
 
Referred 
Not  
Referred 
 
 
 
 
«L2:Hospital Care – Payable on day of admission»  
 
 
 
 
 
Hospital care is billable by the physician responsible for inpatient care of patients admitted to 
hospital. Hospital care includes all of the routine services required to manage in hospital care. 
Additional services provided as a result of an acute episode may be payable with an 
explanation. 
 
 
Post-operative hospital care is included in the surgical fee and can only be paid if hospital 
care is provided by another physician for a condition unrelated to the surgery. Upon transfer 
of hospital care to another physician, billing of hospital care should be as if there was a 
continuation of care under the same physician. An assessment or consultation may not be 
billed when hospital care is transferred to another physician. 
 
 
Hospital care may be billed for short term acute care patients who are admitted to a health 
centre in the same manner as an acute care hospital.  Physicians may not use hospital care to 
cover in-hospital patients who are designated as long-term care. These patients are to be 
billed under codes 627A-629A – Special Care Home Management. 
 
«CODE:25O» 
-- 1-10 days 
-- per day -- bill units (max 10) 
$33.50 
$33.50 
«CODE:26O» 
-- 11-20 days 
-- per day -- bill units (max 10) 
$33.50 
$33.50 
«CODE:27O» 
-- 21-30 days 
-- per day -- bill units (max 10) 
$33.50 
$33.50 
«CODE:28O» 
-- 31 days and thereafter 
-- per day -- bill units (max 99) 
$33.50 
$33.50 
 
 
 
 
 
«L2:Virtual Care Services»   
 
 
 
Please see Virtual Care preamble in the introductory section of the Payment Schedule for more 
information. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:805O» 
Virtual partial assessment or subsequent virtual visit provided via telephone or secure 
videoconference-- includes: 
$89.10 
$71.30 
 
a) history review; 
 
 
 
b) history of presenting complaint; 
 
 
 
c) functional enquiry; 
 
 
 
d) assessment;  
 
 
 
e) diagnosis;  
 
 
 
f) 
necessary treatment;  
 
 
 
g) advice to the patient; and 
 
 
 
h) record of service provided. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:809O» 
Virtual consultation provided via telephone or secure videoconference-- includes: 
$191.15 
 
 
a) all visits necessary;  
 
 
 
b) history; 
 
 
 
c) review of laboratory and/or other data; and  
 
 
 
d) written submission of the consultant's opinion; and  
e) recommendations to the referring doctor 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:811O» 
Repeat virtual consultation provided via telephone or secure videoconference: 
$96.30 
 
 
A formal virtual consultation for the same or related condition repeated within 90 days by 
the same physician. Repeat virtual consultation is only to be billed when it is generated by a 
new formal request by the referring physician. It should not be used for routine virtual 
follow-up of the patient for which service code '805O' "Virtual partial assessment or 
subsequent virtual visit" is appropriate. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- Page 273 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 273
  
«L1:S E C T I O N  P – Obstetrics & Gynecology»  
Specialist in Gynecology & 
Obstetrics  
 
 
Referred 
Not  
Referred 
 
 
 
 
 
«L2:Visits»
 
 
«CODE:5P» 
Initial assessment -- of a specific condition includes:  
$90.45* 
$72.30* 
 
a) pertinent family history; 
b) patient history; 
c) history of presenting complaint; 
d) functional enquiry; 
e) examination of affected part(s) or system(s) 
f) 
diagnosis; 
g) assessment; 
h) necessary treatment; 
i) 
advice to the patient; and, 
j) 
record of service provided. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:7P» 
Follow-up assessment -- includes:  
$61.30* 
$61.30* 
 
a) history review; 
b) functional enquiry; 
c) examination; 
d) reassessment; 
e) necessary treatment;  
f) 
advice to the patient; and, 
g) record of service provided. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:8P» 
Pre-natal visit after the first visit for maternity care or post-natal office visit.  
This service is only eligible for payment when all relevant clinical details of the visit are 
documented in a Saskatchewan approved prenatal form. 
$58.00* 
$58.00* 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:9P» 
Consultation – includes: 
a) all visits necessary; 
b) history and examination; 
c) review of laboratory and/or other data; 
d) written submission of the consultant's opinion; and,  
e) recommendations to the referring doctor. 
$123.50* 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:11P» 
Repeat consultation 
$70.35* 
 
 
A formal consultation for the same or related condition repeated within 90 days by the 
same physician.  Repeat consultation is only to be billed when it is generated by a new 
formal request by the referring physician. It should not be used for routine follow-up of 
the patient for which service 7P "follow-up assessment" is appropriate. 
 
 
 
*  Payment for patients 0-5 years of age and patients 65 years of age and older are 
automatically applied. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:~13P» 
Interpretation of telephonic fetal monitoring by consultant with immediate response, 
per patient 
$35.70 
$28.55 
 
@ Payment approved for a physician with training and expertise in this section. 
 
 
 


--- Page 274 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 274
 
 
S E C T I O N  P – Obstetrics & Gynecology  
Specialist in Gynecology & 
Obstetrics  
 
 
Referred 
Not  
Referred 
 
 
«L2:Hospital Care – Payable on day of admission»  
 
 
 
Hospital care is billable by the physician responsible for inpatient care of patients 
admitted to hospital. Hospital care includes all of the routine services required to 
manage in hospital care. Additional services provided as a result of an acute episode may 
be payable with an explanation. 
 
 
 
 
Post-operative hospital care is included in the surgical fee and can only be paid if hospital 
care is provided by another physician for a condition unrelated to the surgery. Upon 
transfer of hospital care to another physician, billing of hospital care should be as if there 
was a continuation of care under the same physician. An assessment or consultation may 
not be billed when hospital care is transferred to another physician. 
 
 
 
 
Hospital care may be billed for short term acute care patients who are admitted to a 
health centre in the same manner as an acute care hospital.  Physicians may not use 
hospital care to cover in-hospital patients who are designated as long-term care. These 
patients are to be billed under codes 627A-629A – Special Care Home Management. 
 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:25P» 
-- 1-10 days 
-- per day -- bill units (max 10) 
$35.00 
$35.00 
«CODE:26P» 
-- 11-20 days 
-- per day -- bill units (max 10) 
$35.00 
$35.00 
«CODE:27P» 
-- 21-30 days 
-- per day -- bill units (max 10) 
$35.00 
$35.00 
«CODE:28P» 
-- 31 days and thereafter 
-- per day -- bill units (max 99) 
$35.00 
$35.00 
 
 
 
 


--- Page 275 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 275
 
 
S E C T I O N  P – Obstetrics & Gynecology 
Specialist in Gynecology 
& Obstetrics  
 
Referred 
Not  
Referred 
 
 
 
 
 
«L2:VIRTUAL CARE SERVICES»  
 
 
 
Please see Virtual Care preamble in the introductory section of the Payment Schedule for 
more information. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:807P» 
Virtual follow-up assessment provided via telephone or secure videoconference-- 
includes: 
$55.15 
$55.15 
 
a) history review; 
 
 
 
 
b) history of presenting complaint; 
 
 
 
 
c) functional enquiry; 
 
 
 
 
d) diagnosis;  
 
 
 
 
e) assessment; 
 
 
 
 
f) necessary treatment;  
 
 
 
 
g) advice to the patient; and  
 
 
 
 
h) record of service provided. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:808P» 
Virtual pre-natal visit subsequent to a first in-person visit under 5P for maternity care or 
post-natal office visit  
$52.20 
$52.20 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:809P» 
Virtual consultation provided via telephone or secure videoconference-- includes: 
$111.15 
 
 
a) all visits necessary;  
 
 
 
b) history; 
 
 
 
c) review of laboratory and/or other data; 
 
 
 
d) written submission of the consultant's opinion; and 
 
 
 
e) recommendations to the referring doctor. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:811P» 
Repeat virtual consultation provided via telephone or secure videoconference: 
$63.30 
 
 
A formal virtual consultation for the same or related condition repeated within 90 days 
by the same physician. Repeat virtual consultation is only to be billed when it is 
generated by a new formal request by the referring physician. It should not be used for 
routine virtual follow-up of the patient for which service code '807P' "Virtual follow-up 
assessment" is appropriate. 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- Page 276 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 276
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BLANK PAGE INTENTIONAL 


--- Page 277 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 277
 
 
S E C T I O N  P – Obstetrics & Gynecology  
 
 
 
«L2:Obstetrics»
 
 
 
1. 
Payment for pre-natal care and post-natal office visits is made on a "fee-for-service" basis. 
2. 
If during the course of labour, the attending physician calls a consultant to deliver their patient because  
complications have arisen, payment may be made: 
 
a) to the consultant for the consultation and delivery; and,  
 
b) to the referring physician for the pre-natal care they have provided plus 42P. 
 
Note: A 42P is not paid when one general practitioner refers a patient to another general practitioner in the 
same clinic for vaginal delivery. However in the situation where no consultant obstetrician is available and the 
general practitioner is acknowledged to have special training and/or skills in obstetrics, it can be paid on report. 
Also if during the course of labour the attending physician has to call another physician who may be a general 
practitioner in the same clinic to deliver their patient by cesarean section because the referring physician does 
not have surgical privileges, then they may bill under code 42P. They will also be paid for surgical assistant 
services at cesarean section if provided. 
3. 
When the patient is referred for a cesarean section the surgeon is responsible for post-operative care. 
4. 
Payment for "Vaginal delivery" includes the following services by the same physician, a general practitioner in 
the same clinic, or a specialist in the same specialty and clinic or another physician in the same locale: 
 
a) medical and surgical induction except for code 47P; 
b) the treatment of false labour and primary uterine inertia during the two days prior to delivery; 
c) the management of labour; no visit service or hospital care is payable for a patient in normal labour. 
This is included in the composite vaginal delivery fee; 
d) hypnotherapy; 
e) vaginal delivery (including version -- internal or external, use of forceps, repair of lacerated cervix, repair 
of vaginal and first and second degree perineal lacerations and/or pudendal block or other in-filtration 
or regional anesthesia, and repair of episiotomy); 
f) 
services for the control of hemorrhage within 24 hours of delivery; 
g) visit (including hospital care) or consultation services during the patient's stay in hospital following 
delivery. 
 
5. 
Out-of-hours service premiums - see section A - General Services.  
 
 
 
6. 
To support and encourage family physicians to remain or become involved in obstetrics, a bonus of 25% will be 
paid in each fiscal year (beginning April 1 of each year) on the first 25 Vaginal Delivery (41P) or Continuing Care 
at Delivery (42P) services provided by a family physician.  
 
The bonus will be paid automatically as an adjustment to 41P or 42P. Physicians are encouraged to submit claims 
for 41P and 42P in a timely manner to ensure that they receive the bonus payment to which they are entitled. 


--- Page 278 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 278
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BLANK PAGE INTENTIONAL 


--- Page 279 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 279
 
 
S E C T I O N  P – Obstetrics & Gynecology  
Specialist 
General 
Practitioner 
Class 
Anes 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:42P» 
Continuing care provided by the attending physician during the course of 
labour prior to calling a consultant to deliver the patient, during 
attendance/assistance of the delivery by the consultant, and including post-
natal care in hospital when provided.  
$688.00 
$688.00 
 
 
 
1. This service code is applicable only if a substantial amount of time is 
required by the most responsible/referring physician because: 
 
 
 
 
 
a) the referring physician attended to the patient during active labour 
and provided assessment of the progress of the labour, both initial 
and ongoing; and, 
 
 
 
 
 
b) during 
the 
course 
of 
labour 
because 
of 
urgent/emergent 
complications (i.e., fetal distress, failure to progress, cord prolapse, 
uncontrolled hemorrhage, placenta abruption, failed vacuum delivery, 
malpresentation, severe preeclampsia, eclampsia, HELLP syndrome), 
the attending physician finds it necessary to call a consultant to deliver 
the patient; and, 
 
 
 
 
 
c) the referring physician remains in attendance and assists the 
consultant with the delivery; or, 
 
 
 
 
 
d) the referring physician must transfer and accompanies the patient to 
another facility. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For clarity, this service code is payable when the following criteria is all 
satisfied: (a), (b), (c); or (a), (b), (d). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. Please indicate on the claim the name of the consultant to whom the case 
was referred. 
 
 
 
 
 
3. This service is not payable if the patient is already under the care of an 
Obstetrician. 
 
 
 
 
 
If (i) the referral is necessary due to a documented urgent/emergent 
complication not listed above or (ii) where the referring physician does not 
remain in attendance to assist with the delivery but (a) and (b) are satisfied, 
the referring physician may write to Medical Services Branch for 
consideration of payment. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«L2:Deliveries»
 
 
 
 
 
Vaginal delivery and post-natal care in hospital -- see item 4 in preamble  
 
 
 
 
«CODE:40P» 
Vaginal delivery and post-natal care in hospital - specialist 
$714.00 
 
 
 
«CODE:41P» 
Vaginal delivery and post-natal care in hospital - general practitioner 
 
$704.50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:46P» 
Cesarean section** -- any type and post-operative care 
$635.00 
$635.00 
 
M 
«CODE:246P» 
Cesarean section** -- intrapartum, add 
$94.50 
$94.50 
 
 
 
**  Tubal resection and/or ligation performed for sterilization at the time 
of Cesarean Section is payable under 135P at 75% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:241P» 
Delivery of stillborn (claim only where a fetus was a minimum of 500 grams 
and/or had reached 20 weeks gestation) 
$615.00 
$615.00 
 
 
«CODE:44P» 
Multiple pregnancy -- each additional child 
$148.00 
$148.00 
 
 


--- Page 280 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 280
 
 
S E C T I O N  P – Obstetrics & Gynecology  
Specialist 
General 
Practitioner 
Class 
Anes 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:45P» 
Intrauterine manual separation and removal of retained placenta 
$118.00 
$118.00 
0 
M 
«CODE:47P» 
Chemical induction or augmentation of labour -- payable once per delivery, 
add 
$37.90 
$37.90 
 
 
«CODE:48P» 
Ectopic gestation – removal 
$510.00 
$510.00 
42 
M 
«CODE:248P» 
Ectopic gestation salpingorrhaphy, embryectomy and salpingorrhaphy 
$600.00 
$540.00 
42 
M 
«CODE:49P» 
Occlusive suture of cervix in pregnancy 
$208.00 
$187.20 
10 
M 
«CODE:269P» 
Removal of occlusive suture of cervix -- office procedure 
$24.80 
$24.80 
0 
 
«CODE:279P» 
Removal of occlusive suture of cervix -- hospital procedure under anesthesia 
$104.00 
$104.00 
0 
L 
 

«L1:S E C T I O N  P – Obstetrics & Gynecology»

«L2:Complications of Pregnancy»

1. Two of these codes may be paid per patient per pregnancy to one or two physicians.
2. If a third or subsequent code is requested there should be an accompanying explanation.

«CODE:200P» Breech presentation -- delivered vaginally – add    $125.00    $112.50
«CODE:201P» Face or brow presentation -- delivered vaginally – add    $81.70    $73.50
«CODE:202P» Transverse or occiput posterior -- forceps extraction or vacuum extraction (excludes outlet or elective forceps) – add    $88.60    $79.85
«CODE:203P» Prolonged rupture of membranes for over 24 hours – add    $82.50    $74.25
«CODE:204P» Abruptio placenta – add    $82.50    $74.25
«CODE:205P» Placenta previa – add    $82.50    $74.25
«CODE:206P» Vaginal delivery following previous Cesarean section – add    $110.00    $99.00
«CODE:207P» Pregnancy - severe hypertension in pregnancy requiring pharmacological therapy and monitoring – add    $106.00    $95.40
«CODE:208P» Pharmacological suppression of premature labour – add    $82.00    $73.80
«CODE:209P» Repair of significant cervical laceration – add    $95.00    $85.45
«CODE:210P» Previous stillbirth after 20 weeks – add    $82.00    $73.80
«CODE:211P» Cephalic version under ultrasound control without tocolysis – add    $64.85    $58.35
«CODE:212P» Cephalic version under ultrasound control with tocolysis – add    $93.60    $84.20
«CODE:213P» Diabetes requiring insulin antepartum – add    $82.00    $73.80
«CODE:214P» IUGR (birth weight < 5th percentile) – add    $82.00    $73.80
«CODE:215P» Pregnancy and heart disease (New York Heart Association Class 3 or 4) – add    $84.20    $75.85
«CODE:216P» Pregnancy and pre-existing hypertension (on antihypertensive therapy before pregnancy) – add    $82.00    $73.80
«CODE:217P» Pregnancy and antiphospholipid antibody syndrome – add    $81.20    $73.10
«CODE:218P» Pregnancy and significant medical disease (Not listed above) requiring active concurrent management -- by report    $82.00    $73.80

«L2:Procedures»

Additional payments for diagnostic service excluding ECGs, 0, 10 or 42 day operative procedures performed on patients under one (1) year of age are automatically calculated and paid as explained in Section A.

«CODE:50P» Therapeutic abortion -- first trimester - surgical    $230.75    $230.75    42    L
«CODE:250P» Therapeutic abortion -- second trimester - surgical    $338.25    $304.45    42    L

Note: 50P and 250P cannot be billed for administering or prescribing pharmaceutical abortion agents such as mifepristone and misoprostol. See service code 150B for the administration and medical management of pharmaceutical abortion agents.

Administering or prescribing pharmaceutical abortion agents are an inclusion in the visit service.

«CODE:349P» Dilation and curettage (D&C) for management of acute or delayed postpartum hemorrhage 24 hours to 6 weeks post-delivery    $250.00    $250.00    42    L
«CODE:350P» Dilation and curettage (D&C) for incomplete or missed abortion    $250.00    $250.00    42    L
«CODE:351P» Management of second trimester therapeutic medical termination of pregnancy – in hospital    $287.60    $287.60

1. In-hospital medical management of a therapeutic, non-surgical termination of second trimester pregnancy (between 14 and 20 weeks' gestation) for fetal demise or significant fetal anomaly.
2. This service is intended to compensate for the administration, induction, and delivery of fetus/products of conception in a hospital setting.
3. Payment for this service is a composite fee for the in-hospital medical management and includes any cervical dilatation (i.e.: insertion of laminaria), administration of medication, assessments/evaluations, monitoring, counselling/advice provided during the hospital stay and management of delivery.
4. 351P is not billable when the only service provided is administering or prescribing pharmaceutical abortion agents such as mifepristone and misoprostol. See service code 150B for the administration and medical management of pharmaceutical abortion agents.

«CODE:51P» Intrauterine fetal transfusion    $266.10    $239.50    10
«CODE:52P» Repair of fourth degree tear following delivery    $193.00    $173.65    42    L
«CODE:54P» Repair of 3rd degree tear following delivery or secondary repair of episiotomy    $95.50    $85.95    10    L

Note: Repair of episiotomy is included in the delivery fee.

«CODE:53P» Replacement of inverted uterus    $187.60    $168.80    42    L
«CODE:55P» Insertion of intrauterine pressure catheter    $30.25    $30.25    D
«CODE:258P» Transvaginal fetal scalp blood sampling -- payable twice per pregnancy    $63.00    $63.00    D
«CODE:57P» Amniotic tap -- trans-abdominal -- second trimester    $86.70    $86.70    D
«CODE:58P» Amniotic tap -- trans-abdominal -- third trimester    $62.90    $62.90    D
«CODE:59P» Fetoscopy -- including fetal blood sample, cell harvest or amniocentesis    $163.60    $147.25    D

«L3:Non stress test – in office -- if equipment owned by physician»

«CODE:260P» Non stress test -- first fetus    $37.60    $33.80    D
«CODE:261P» Non stress test -- second and subsequent per fetus in cases of multiple gestations    $28.00    $25.25    D

«L3:Gynecology»

«CODE:30P» Vaginal sperm examination    $20.20    $20.20    D
«CODE:338P» Sperm washing prior to insemination -- performed in physician's own office    $38.00    $38.00    0
«CODE:31P» Tubal insufflation or hysterosalpingogram or sonohysterogram – Rubin's (bilateral)    $80.00    $80.00    D    L
«CODE:32P» Pelvic examination under anesthesia -- when only procedure done    $100.00    $100.00    D    L
«CODE:34P» Culdoscopy or laparoscopy* -- with or without biopsy    $250.00    $224.90    D    M
«CODE:35P» Laparoscopy Surgery* -- with divisions of adhesions for endometriosis or with treatment of endometriosis by either cauterization or CO2 laser vaporization.    $450.00    $404.90    10    M

* Laparoscopy not paid with any laparoscopic surgery (i.e., not paid in addition to other surgical codes). For further clarity, diagnostic laparoscopy is payable as a standalone diagnostic procedure.

«CODE:333P» Removal of intrauterine device (IUD) under general anesthesia or IV sedation – when only procedure done.    $150.60    $135.55    42    L
«CODE:~334P» Hysteroscopy -- with or without D & C, with or without other intrauterine procedures @ with approved training

Note: 334P not payable for the removal of intrauterine device (IUD). See codes: 104A, 105A, 333P.    $250.00    $225.00    D    L
«CODE:335P» Endometrial ablation    $300.00    $270.00    42    M
«CODE:336P» Excision of endometrial polyps and/or fibroids -- add to 334P or 335P only    $200.00    $200.00    42    L
«CODE:232P» Hysteroscopic division of uterine septum    $350.00    $315.10    42    L
«CODE:233P» Fallopian tube cannulation by hysteroscopy, unilateral or bilateral    $300.00    $270.00    42    L
«CODE:234P» Hysteroscopic adhesiolysis for treatment of Asherman's Syndrome    $350.00    $315.10    42    L
«CODE:235P» Hysteroscopic endometrial resection    $350.00    $315.10    42    M
«CODE:36P» Hydrotubation    $50.00    $50.00    0    L
«CODE:37P» Colposcopy -- not in office    $45.00    $45.00    D    L
«CODE:38P» Colposcopy -- with biopsy -- not in office    $47.50    $47.50    D    L
«CODE:438P» Colposcopy -- in office    $50.00    $50.00    D
«CODE:439P» Colposcopy -- with biopsy - in office    $54.00    $50.00    D
«CODE:39P» Endometrial tissue biopsy by aspiration    $59.00    $59.00    D    L
«CODE:314P» Menopausal gonadotropin therapy, add to appropriate visit fee -- initial set-up per treatment cycle    $85.00    $76.45
«CODE:315P» Menopausal gonadotropin therapy, add to appropriate visit fee -- subsequent injections    $25.00    $22.50

«L3:Vulva»

«CODE:60P» Hymenectomy (in hospital -- general Anesthetic)    $120.00    $120.00    0    L
«CODE:61P» Bartholin cyst -- incision    $50.00    $50.00    10    L
«CODE:78P» Bartholin cyst -- marsupialization    $175.00    $175.00    42    L
«CODE:62P» Bartholin cyst -- excision    $300.00    $300.00    42    L
«CODE:63P» Skene's glands -- cautery or excision    $150.00    $150.00    10    L
«CODE:65P» Urethra -- caruncle -- cautery    $34.20    $34.20    0    L
«CODE:66P» Urethra – caruncle -- excision    $118.30    $118.30    10    L
«CODE:67P» Urethra -- caruncle -- diverticulum – repair    $237.80    $213.95    42    L
«CODE:68P» Urethra -- caruncle -- prolapse – repair    $129.50    $116.50    42    L
«CODE:69P» Correction of atresia of vulva    $133.90    $120.55    42    L
«CODE:70P» Vulvectomy    $500.00    $450.00    42    M
«CODE:71P» Vulvectomy -- with bilateral inguinal node excision    $846.80    $762.05    42    M
«CODE:72P» Vulvectomy -- with bilateral inguinal and pelvic node excision    $1,168.40    $1,051.95    42    M
«CODE:73P» Surgical denervation of vulva for pruritus vulvae    $124.70    $112.25    42    L

«L3:Vagina»

«CODE:80P» Dilatation of vagina under general anesthesia or IV sedation (includes post-op recovery)    $100.00    $100.00    0    L
«CODE:81P» Colpotomy    $150.00    $150.00    42    L
«CODE:82P» Fistula -- recto-vaginal – repair    $1,000.00    $900.00    42    M
«CODE:83P» Fistula -- urethro-vaginal – repair    $892.20    $804.25    42    M
«CODE:84P» Fistula -- vesico-vaginal – repair    $1,066.50    $959.85    42    M
«CODE:85P» Vaginal cysts -- inclusion – removal    $300.00    $300.00    10    L
«CODE:86P» Vaginal cysts -- congenital – removal    $300.00    $270.15    42    L
«CODE:87P» Vaginal atresia -- plastic reconstruction    $400.00    $360.00    42    L
«CODE:88P» Vaginectomy    $650.00    $585.00    42    M
«CODE:89P» Excision of vaginal septum    $300.00    $270.10    10    L

«L3:Genital Prolapse»

«CODE:90P» Colporrhaphy -- anterior or posterior    $300.00    $300.00    42    L
«CODE:91P» Colporrhaphy – repeat    $450.00    $404.95    42    L
«CODE:105P» Paravaginal repair (alternative to anterior repair)    $300.00    $269.95    42    L
«CODE:92P» Paravaginal repair -- anterior and posterior    $300.00    $300.00    42    L
«CODE:93P» Paravaginal repair -- repeat    $450.00    $405.05    42    L
«CODE:193P» Mesh augmented prolapse repair    $300.00    $270.00    42    L
«CODE:96P» Vaginal vault prolapse – repair    $450.00    $405.00    42    L
«CODE:97P» Enterocele repair    $350.00    $315.00    42    L
«CODE:98P» LeFort operation    $450.00    $405.05    42    L
«CODE:99P» Manchester operation    $450.00    $405.05    42    L
«CODE:100P» Third degree laceration (old) repair    $590.00    $531.10    42    L
«CODE:101P» Urethra -- suspension procedure – initial    $400.00    $359.90    42    L
«CODE:103P» Urethra -- suspension procedure – repeat after 42 days    $600.00    $540.00    42    L
«CODE:102P» Urethra -- pubo vaginal sling    $550.00    $495.00    42    L
«CODE:104P» Abdminosacrocolpopexy    $700.00    $630.00    42    M

«L3:Cervix and Uterus»

«CODE:108P» Artificial insemination, per insemination    $52.10    $52.10    0
«CODE:109P» Cryoconization or loop diathermy of cervix    $200.00    $180.25    0    L
«CODE:110P» Cervix -- biopsy with or without electro-cauterization    $35.00    $35.00    D    L
«CODE:111P» Cervix -- electro-cauterization    $15.00    $15.00    0    L
«CODE:112P» Cervix -- polyp -- removal -- with or without electro-cauterization    $35.00    $35.00    0    L
«CODE:113P» Cervix -- conization with D and C, with or without deep cautery, with or without polyp removal    $200.00    $179.95    10    L
«CODE:114P» Cervix -- biopsy – excision    $35.00    $35.00    10    L
«CODE:115P» Cervix -- repair or amputation    $200.00    $180.00    42    L
«CODE:116P» Removal of cervical stump – abdominal    $509.65    $458.85    42    M
«CODE:117P» Removal of cervical stump – vaginal    $506.65    $455.90    42    L
«CODE:118P» Dilatation and curettage    $250.00    $250.00    0    L
«CODE:228P» Insertion of brachytherapy stent/sleeve    $400.00    $400.00    10    L
«CODE:120P» Hysterotomy    $450.00    $405.00    42    M

«L4:Hysterectomy – open -- not paid in addition to adnexal surgery»

«CODE:122P» Hysterectomy -- subtotal    $797.50    $717.85    42    M
«CODE:123P» Hysterectomy -- total – abdominal    $1,100.00    $990.00    42    M
«CODE:124P» Hysterectomy -- total – vaginal    $1,100.00    $990.00    42    M
«CODE:125P» Hysterectomy -- total – Wertheim    $1,800.00    $1,620.00    42    H

«L4:Hysterectomy -- laparoscopic or laparoscopic assisted -- not paid in addition to adnexal surgery»

«CODE:126P» Hysterectomy -- subtotal or total -- includes 34P & 134P    $1,100.00    $990.00    42    M
«CODE:130P» Surgical treatment of endometriosis by excision of lesion/lesions requiring at least 45 minutes of operating time to treat endometriosis, includes presacral neurectomy.    $593.85    $534.45    42    M
«CODE:131P» Myomectomy by laparotomy or laparoscopy:
a) Single or multiple;
b) Not paid in addition to adnexal surgery; and,
c) 131P is not payable for myomectomy by hysteroscopy; for this service, the following service codes may be appropriate: 334P, 336P    $905.45    $814.90    42    M

Cervix and Uterus

«CODE:132P» Uteroplasty    $750.00    $675.00    42    M
«CODE:133P» Uterus – suspension    $364.80    $328.35    42    M
«CODE:134P» Salpingectomy and/or oophorectomy and/or ovarian cystectomy
a) Unilateral or bilateral; and,
b) When second ovary requires cystectomy, the surgery on the contralateral side may be paid at 75% by report.    $500.00    $500.00    42    M
«CODE:135P» Tubal resection and/or ligation for sterilization
a) Unilateral or bilateral; and,
b) Payable at 75 %, by report when performed as a second and unrelated procedure at the time of other gynecological surgery in which fertility would otherwise be preserved.    $300.00    $300.00    42    M

«L4:Salpingostomy -- not paid in addition to other adnexal surgery»

«CODE:236P» Salpingostomy – unilateral    $410.00    $369.05    42    M
«CODE:237P» Salpingostomy – bilateral    $510.00    $459.00    42    M
«CODE:238P» Salpingo-utero-ovario-lysis -- not paid in addition to other adnexal surgery, unilateral or bilateral    $400.00    $360.10    42    M
«CODE:138P» Broad ligament cyst enucleation - not paid in addition to other adnexal surgery    $400.00    $360.00    42    M
«CODE:139P» Ovarian suspension or neurectomy - not paid in addition to other adnexal surgery    $300.00    $300.00    42    M
«CODE:140P» Tubal ligation through laparoscope -- unilateral or bilateral    $300.00    $300.00    42    M
«CODE:141P» Hysteroscopic sterilization by tubal occlusion (Essure)    $250.00    $225.00    42    M
«CODE:142P» Omentectomy - when done in addition to 123P or 134P in cases of malignancy, add    $100.00    $100.00    42    M
«CODE:143P» Reconstruction of fallopian tubes following pathological occlusion - unilateral (second tube is payable at 75%)    $550.00    $495.00    42    M
«CODE:150P» Laser vaporization -- cervix -- full circumference    $150.00    $135.00    10    L
«CODE:151P» Laser vaporization -- intraepithelial neoplasia of vulva, vagina or cervical segment    $150.00    $135.00    0    L
«CODE:251P» Laser vaporization -- extensive -- vulva and/or vagina and/or cervix    By report    10    L

1. For laser therapy of venereal warts (time 30 minutes or less) use 422R.
2. Claim 150P and 422R for circumferential laser ablation of cervix for CIN plus removal of genital warts.
3. Claims for 251P for CIN and/or venereal warts (over 30 minutes) are payable at $4.00 per minute.

«L2:BMI Supplement»

BMI supplements are not payable to the surgical assistant who is billing "J" section codes.

«CODE:580P» Obstetrics and Gynecology supplement for patients with a body mass index (weight[kg]/height[m] 2), greater than 40 or greater than 45 if pregnant and in the third trimester.    $120.00    $120.00

«CODE:581P» Obstetrics and Gynecology supplement for patients with a body mass index, (weight[kg]/height[m] 2) greater than 50.    $180.00    $180.00

Obstetrics and Gynecology supplement (580P and 581P) may be billed with service codes 31P to 40P, 41P, 44P to 46P, 48P to 140P, 141P, 143P, 150P, 151P, 211P, 212P, 232P, 233P, 234P, 235P, 236P, 237P, 238P, 241P, 248P, 250P, 251P, 258P, 269P, 279P, 333P, 334P, 335P, 350P, 438P and 439P.

a) Maximum of one (1) 580P or 581P supplement per patient per day.
b) Codes 580P and 581P cannot be billed together.

«L1:S E C T I O N  Q – Neurology»

«L2:Visits»

«CODE:3Q*» Complete assessment -- includes:    $106.00    $84.80
a) pertinent family history;
b) patient history;
c) history of presenting complaint;
d) functional enquiry;
e) examination of all parts & systems;
f) diagnosis;
g) assessment;
h) necessary treatment;
i) advice to the patient; and,
j) record of service provided.

«CODE:5Q*» Partial assessment or subsequent visit -- includes:    $101.80    $71.30
a) history review;
b) history of presenting complaint;
c) functional enquiry;
d) examination of affected part(s) or system(s);
e) diagnosis;
f) assessment;
g) necessary treatment;
h) advice to the patient; and,
i) record of service provided.

«CODE:9Q*» Consultation – includes:
a) all visits necessary;
b) history and examination;
c) review of laboratory and/or other data;
d) written submission of the consultant's opinion; and,
e) recommendations to the referring doctor.    $175.00

«CODE:11Q*» Repeat consultation    $104.00

A formal consultation for the same or related condition repeated within 90 days by the same physician. Repeat consultation is only to be billed when it is generated by a new formal request by the referring physician. It should not be used for routine follow-up of the patient for which either service code '5' "partial assessment or subsequent review" or service code '7' "follow-up assessment" are appropriate.

* Payment for patients 0-5 years of age and patients 65 years of age and older are automatically applied

«L2:Hospital Care – Payable on day of admission»

Hospital care is billable by the physician responsible for inpatient care of patients admitted to hospital. Hospital care includes all of the routine services required to manage in hospital care. Additional services provided as a result of an acute episode may be payable with an explanation.

Post-operative hospital care is included in the surgical fee and can only be paid if hospital care is provided by another physician for a condition unrelated to the surgery. Upon transfer of hospital care to another physician, billing of hospital care should be as if there was a continuation of care under the same physician. An assessment or consultation may not be billed when hospital care is transferred to another physician.

Hospital care may be billed for short term acute care patients who are admitted to a health centre in the same manner as an acute care hospital. Physicians may not use hospital care to cover in-hospital patients who are designated as long-term care. These patients are to be billed under codes 627A-629A – Special Care Home Management.

«CODE:25Q» -- 1-10 days -- per day -- bill units (max 10)    $36.00    $36.00
«CODE:26Q» -- 11-20 days -- per day -- bill units (max 10)    $35.00    $35.00
«CODE:27Q» -- 21-30 days -- per day -- bill units (max 10)    $32.00    $32.00
«CODE:28Q» -- 31 days and thereafter -- per day -- bill units (max 99)    $31.00    $31.00

BLANK PAGE INTENTIONAL

«L2:VIRTUAL CARE SERVICES»

Please see Virtual Care preamble in the introductory section of the Payment Schedule for more information.

«CODE:805Q» Virtual partial assessment of subsequent virtual visit provided via telephone or secure videoconference-- includes:    $91.60    $64.15
a) history review;
b) history of presenting complaint;
c) functional enquiry;
d) diagnosis;
e) assessment;
f) necessary treatment;
g) advice to the patient; and
h) record of service provided.

«CODE:809Q» Virtual consultation provided via telephone or secure videoconference-- includes:    $157.50
a) all visits necessary;
b) history;
c) review of laboratory and/or other data;
d) written submission of the consultant's opinion; and
e) recommendations to the referring doctor.

«CODE:811Q» Repeat virtual consultation provided via telephone or secure videoconference:    $93.60

A formal virtual consultation for the same or related condition repeated within 90 days by the same physician. Repeat virtual consultation is only to be billed when it is generated by a new formal request by the referring physician. It should not be used for routine virtual follow-up of the patient for which service code '805Q' "Virtual partial assessment or subsequent virtual visit" is appropriate.

BLANK PAGE INTENTIONAL

Looking at the PDF content provided, I'll tag it according to the instructions:

--- Page 291 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 291
 
 
«L1:S E C T I O N  Q – Neurology»
Specialist 
General 
Practitioner 
Class 
 
«L2:Procedures:»
 
Additional payments for diagnostic service excluding ECGs, 0, 10 or 42 day 
operative procedures performed on patients under one (1) year of age are 
automatically calculated and paid as explained in Section A. 
 
«CODE:101Q» Manual muscle testing – complete 
$22.00 
$19.85 
D 
«CODE:102Q» Manual muscle testing – regional 
$8.00 
$7.10 
D 
«CODE:103Q» Major myoneural study - complete - 11 or more units* 
$76.50 
$69.30 
D 
«CODE:104Q» Minor myoneural study - 6 to 10 units* 
$51.00 
$45.90 
D 
«CODE:105Q» Limited study 1 to 5 units* 
$36.00 
$32.35 
D 
 
* a unit is either a segment of a nerve conduction study or an individual muscle 
«CODE:106Q» Interpretation of nerve conduction study - not payable with a visit service 
$15.30 
$13.80 
D 
«CODE:107Q» Repetitive nerve stimulation of 2 or more muscles 
$38.70 
$34.90 
D 
«CODE:108Q» Blink reflex bilateral stimulation of facial nerve with ipsilateral and  
contralateral recording of blink reflex 
$20.40 
$18.40 
D 
«CODE:109Q» Technical fee for physician performance of nerve conduction studies  
and/or EMG only.  For billing of technical component see "Definitions" (19) 
and "Services Supervised by a Physician". 
$32.00 
 
$32.00 
 
D 
«CODE:110Q» Complex study - add to appropriate procedure or technical code -- requires 
explanation (e.g. ICU neuromuscular assessment) 
$20.40 
$20.40 
D 
«CODE:120Q» Ischemic or Non-Ischemic forearm test -- professional component 
$152.90 
$137.60 
D 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«L2:Organ Donor Assessment»
 
 
 
«CODE:140Q» Certification of brain death and organ donor assessment by specialist with  
appropriate training, following health authority protocols 
$148.40 
 
$133.65 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:150Q» Certification of brain death and organ donor assessment by specialist with  
appropriate training who was providing ICU care to the patient following  
health authority protocols 
$73.60 
 
$66.25 
 
 
 


--- Page 292 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 292
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BLANK PAGE INTENTIONAL 


--- Page 293 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 293
 
 
«L1:S E C T I O N  R – Urological Surgery»   
Specialist in Urological Surgery 
 
 
Referred 
Not  
Referred 
 
«L2:Visits»
 
 
«CODE:5R» Initial assessment -- of a specific condition includes:  
$60.90* 
$48.70* 
 
a) pertinent family history; 
b) patient history; 
c) history of presenting complaint 
d) functional enquiry; 
e) examination of affected part(s) 
or system(s); 
f) 
diagnosis;  
g) assessment;  
h) necessary treatment;  
i) 
advice to the patient; and, 
j) 
record of service provided. 
 
 
«CODE:7R» Follow-up assessment -- includes:  
$49.55* 
$44.50* 
 
a) history review; 
b) functional enquiry; 
c) examination; 
d) reassessment; 
e) necessary treatment; 
f) 
advice to the patient; and, 
g) record of service provided. 
 
 
«CODE:9R» Consultation – includes: 
a) all visits necessary; 
b) history and examination; 
c) review of laboratory and/or other data;  
d) written submission of the consultant's opinion; and,  
e) recommendations to the referring doctor 
$108.30* 
 
«CODE:11R» Repeat consultation 
$52.00* 
 
 
A formal consultation for the same or related condition repeated within 90 days by 
the same physician.  Repeat consultation is only to be billed when it is generated by a 
new formal request by the referring physician. It should not be used for routine 
follow-up of the patient for which either service code '5' "partial assessment or 
subsequent review" or service code '7' "follow-up assessment" are appropriate. 
 
 
 
* 
Payment for patients 0-5 years of age and patients 65 years of age and older are 
automatically applied. 
 
 
 
«L2:Hospital Care – Payable on day of admission»  
 
 
 
Hospital care is billable by the physician responsible for inpatient care of patients 
admitted to hospital. Hospital care includes all of the routine services required to 
manage in hospital care. Additional services provided as a result of an acute episode 
may be payable with an explanation. 
 
 
Post-operative hospital care is included in the surgical fee and can only be paid if 
hospital care is provided by another physician for a condition unrelated to the 
surgery. Upon transfer of hospital care to another physician, billing of hospital care 
should be as if there was a continuation of care under the same physician. An 
assessment or consultation may not be billed when hospital care is transferred to 
another physician.  Hospital care may be billed for short term acute care patients 
who are admitted to a health centre in the same manner as an acute care hospital.  
Physicians may not use hospital care to cover in-hospital patients who are designated 
as long-term care. These patients are to be billed under codes 627A-629A – Special 
Care Home Management. 
 
 
 
«CODE:25R» -- 1-10 days 
-- per day -- bill units (max 10) 
$30.00 
$30.00 
«CODE:26R» -- 11-20 days 
-- per day -- bill units (max 10) 
$30.00 
$30.00 
«CODE:27R» -- 21-30 days 
-- per day -- bill units (max 10) 
$30.00 
$30.00 
«CODE:28R» -- 31 days and thereafter 
-- per day -- bill units (max 99) 
$30.00 
$30.00 


--- Page 294 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 294
 
S E C T I O N  R – Urological Surgery   
Specialist in Urological 
Surgery 
 
 
Referred 
Not  
Referred 
 
 
 
 
 
«L2:Virtual Care Services»   
 
 
 
Please see Virtual Care preamble in the introductory section of the Payment Schedule for 
more information. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:807R» Virtual follow-up assessment provided via telephone or secure videoconference-- 
includes: 
$44.60 
$40.05 
 
a) history review; 
 
 
 
 
b) functional enquiry; 
 
 
 
 
c) reassessment;  
 
 
 
 
d) necessary treatment;  
 
 
 
 
e) advice to the patient; and  
 
 
 
 
f) record of service provided.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:809R» Virtual consultation provided via telephone or secure videoconference-- includes: 
$97.45 
 
 
a) all visits necessary;  
 
 
 
b) history; 
 
 
 
c) review of laboratory and/or other data; 
 
 
 
d) written submission of the consultant's opinion; and 
 
 
 
e) recommendations to the referring doctor. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:811R» Repeat virtual consultation provided via telephone or secure videoconference: 
$46.80 
 
 
A formal virtual consultation for the same or related condition repeated within 90 days 
by the same physician. Repeat virtual consultation is only to be billed when it is 
generated by a new formal request by the referring physician. It should not be used for 
routine virtual follow-up of the patient for which service code '807R' "Virtual follow-up 
assessment" is appropriate. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


--- Page 295 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 295
 
 
S E C T I O N  R – Urological Surgery   
Specialist 
General 
Practitioner 
Class 
Anes 
«CODE:~13R» Written advice to referring physician on the management of a case 
based upon review of IVP and/or other x-rays by Urological Surgeon  
-- payable once per case only 
$42.40 
$33.90@ 
 
@  Payment approved for a physician with training and expertise in 
this section  
 
«L2:Procedures:»
 
 
 
 
 
Additional payments for diagnostic service excluding ECGs, 0, 10 or 42 day 
operative procedures performed on patients under one (1) year of age are 
automatically calculated and paid as explained in Section A. 
 
«CODE:29R» Diagnostic bladder catheterization -- in office procedure 
$16.50 
$16.50 
D 
L 
«CODE:30R» Cystoscopy 
$108.80 
$97.90 
D 
L 
«CODE:31R» Cystoscopy -- with bilateral ureteral catheterization or retrograde 
pyelography 
$150.00 
$135.05 
D 
L 
«CODE:33R» Cystoscopy -- split function renal study with interpretation 
$140.70 
$126.40 
D 
L 
«CODE:38R» Cystoscopy -- voiding cystourethrogram in operating room, add 
$34.10 
$34.10 
D 
L 
«CODE:35R» Seminal fluid analysis -- count, motility, morphology -- bill units 
$21.80 
$21.80 
D 
 
«CODE:36R» Prostatic secretion (microscopic examination) 
$4.60 
$4.20 
D 
 
«CODE:39R» Assessment of penile and/or testicular blood flow and/or varicocele, 
including measurement of penile blood pressure 
$14.70 
$14.70 
D 
 
 
«L3:Urodynamics Investigations»
For billing of technical component see "Definitions" (19) and "Services 
Supervised by a Physician". 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:400R» Cystometrogram -- technical component 
$41.10 
$41.10 
D 
 
«CODE:500R» Cystometrogram -- technical component using disposable catheter 
$71.75 
$71.75 
D 
 
«CODE:401R» Cystometrogram -- professional component 
$80.00 
$80.00 
D 
 
«CODE:402R» Electromyography -- technical component 
$38.80 
$38.80 
D 
 
«CODE:403R» Electromyography -- professional component 
$120.00 
$120.00 
D 
 
«CODE:404R» Urethral pressure profile -- technical component 
$41.25 
$41.25 
D 
 
«CODE:405R» Urethral pressure profile -- professional component 
$61.75 
$61.75 
D 
 
«CODE:406R» Uroflow -- technical component 
$13.50 
$13.50 
D 
 
«CODE:407R» Uroflow -- professional component 
$27.70 
$27.70 
D 
 
 
«L3:Venereal warts -- either sex»
 
 
 
 
 
Electrocoagulation or chemocoagulation of venereal warts -- includes  
treatment  with Podophyllin 
 
«CODE:420R» Venereal warts -- initial 
$109.10 
$109.10 
0 
 
«CODE:421R» Venereal warts -- repeat within 10 days 
$33.80 
$33.80 
0 
 
«CODE:422R» Venereal warts -- operation -- in hospital 
$109.80 
$109.80 
10 
L 
 
«L3:Endoscopic»
 
 
 
 
«CODE:40R» Fulguration or biopsy of bladder -- tumors and/or other lesions 
$173.70 
$156.35 
42 
L 
«CODE:41R» Transurethral -- lithopexy 
$443.80 
$399.35 
42 
L 
«CODE:42R» Transurethral -- removal of ureteral stone by manipulation 
$276.30 
$248.70 
42 
L 
«CODE:43R» Periurethral injection of Teflon for incontinence -- includes cystoscopy 
$276.30 
$248.70 
10 
L 
«CODE:44R» Bladder tumor resection 
$518.10 
$466.25 
42 
M 


--- Page 296 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 296
 
  
S E C T I O N  R – Urological Surgery   
Specialist 
General 
Practitioner 
Class 
Anes 
«CODE:46R» Secondary hemorrhage -- endoscopic treatment -- exempt from 
repeat surgical rule 
$173.70 
$156.35 
42 
L 
«CODE:47R» Bladder neck resection 
$411.40 
$370.25 
42 
L 
«CODE:48R» Resection of ureterocele 
$173.70 
$156.35 
42 
L 
«CODE:49R» Resection of posterior urethral valve 
$371.50 
$334.35 
42 
L 
«CODE:50R» Ureteroscopy -- with or without biopsy (includes cystoscopy) 
$513.90 
$462.45 
D 
L 
«CODE:51R» Ureteroscopy -- with removal of stone (includes cystoscopy) 
$687.60 
$618.80 
42 
 
«CODE:52R» Ureteroscopy -- with ultrasonic disintegration add to 51R 
$87.60 
$78.85 
42 
 
«CODE:53R» Ureteroplasty-- endoscopic with balloon dilation of ureteric stricture 
with or without stent not billable with 51R 
$326.60 
 
$293.95 
 
0 
L 
 
«L3:Penis»
 
 
 
 
 
«L4:Penile Curvature Correction, composite»  
 
 
 
 
 
Surgical correction of penis curvature for patients with Peyronie's 
Disease in the chronic phase or from congenital penile curvature. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. Only one of the three procedures below billable per patient, 
on the same date.  
2. Payable when all other appropriate treatment options have 
been exhausted and failed.  
3. Billable when performed by a specialist with requisite 
subspecialty training in urology.  
4. 30R (Cystoscopy) is billable in addition, by report only. This 
does not include documentation of urethral injury, which is 
considered an inclusion.   
5. 63R (Insertion of penile prosthesis), when scheduled to be 
done in conjunction with one of the procedures below for 
the same patient, on the same date, is subject to prior 
approval by MSB Medical Consultant(s).  
6. If 63R (Insertion of penile prosthesis) is done following a 
failed attempt of one of the procedures below for the same 
patient, on the same date, only 63R is billable. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:55R» Correction of penile curvature by grafting 
$1,000.00 
 
42 
M 
«CODE:56R» Correction of penile curvature by intracorporeal destruction/incision 
$450.00 
 
42 
M 
«CODE:57R» Correction of penile curvature by plication 
$700.00 
 
42 
M 
«CODE:59R» Incisional biopsy of glans penis 
$100.00 
$100.00 
10 
L 
«CODE:60R» Penis -- amputation 
$821.60 
$739.45 
42 
M 
«CODE:61R» Penis -- amputation -- with excision (radical) of node 
$1,204.00 
$1,083.70 
42 
M 
«CODE:62R» Penis -- partial amputation 
$687.60 
$618.80 
42 
M 
«CODE:37R» Intra-penile vasoactive injection, each to a max of 2 units per day 
$13.90 
$13.90 
0 
 
«CODE:63R» Insertion of semi-rigid or self-contained inflatable penile prosthesis, 
composite, billable when: 
$850.00 
 
42 
M 
 
1. Erectile dysfunction is a direct result of surgical injury, 
trauma or severe penile deformity (i.e.: ≥ 90 degrees 
curvature secondary to Peyronie's disease); and, 
2. All other treatment options have been exhausted and failed. 
 
 
 
 


--- Page 297 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 297
 
 
S E C T I O N  R – Urological Surgery   
Specialist 
General 
Practitioner 
Class 
Anes 
«CODE:71R» Intralesional Verapamil injection for Peyronie's plaque  
$100.00 
$90.00 
10 
L 
 
- Not billable in multiples, only one treatment/service is billable 
per patient contact 
 
 
 
 
 
«L4:Circumcision (routine circumcision is not insured)»
 
 
 
 
«CODE:65R» Circumcision -- with local anesthesia injection 
$129.00 
$129.00 
0 
 
«CODE:66R» Circumcision -- under anesthesia administered by an anesthesiologist 
-- child 
$266.90 
$266.90 
42 
L 
«CODE:67R» Circumcision -- under anesthesia administered by an anesthesiologist 
-- adult 
$288.90 
$288.90 
42 
L 
«CODE:68R» Dorsal slit or preputial adhesiolysis under EMLA 
$135.00 
$135.00 
0 
L 
 
«L3:Urethra»
 
 
 
 
«CODE:69R» Urethra -- meatotomy – with plastic repair 
$95.10 
$85.55 
10 
L 
«CODE:70R» Urethra -- dilation 
$76.50 
$76.50 
0 
L 
«CODE:73R» Urethra -- surgical repair anterior urethral rupture 
$1,000.00 
$899.95 
42 
L 
«CODE:74R» Urethra -- repair posterior -- primary repair including suprapubic 
cystotomy 
$911.40 
$820.30 
42 
M 
«CODE:75R» Urethrotomy 
$207.30 
$186.55 
42 
L 
«CODE:76R» Removal of foreign body from urethra 
$185.30 
$166.70 
10 
L 
«CODE:77R» Urethral diverticulectomy 
$548.40 
$493.60 
42 
L 
«CODE:78R» Urethrocutaneous fistula – repair 
$614.30 
$552.90 
42 
L 
«CODE:79R» Repeat repair of anterior or posterior urethral rupture or stricture 
(related to 73R or 74R) 
$894.10 
$804.40 
42 
L 
«CODE:80R» Urethral stent for prostatic hypertrophy or stricture - includes 
cystoscopy 
$293.60 
$264.30 
42 
L 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«L3:Bladder»
 
 
 
 
«CODE:89R» Chemotherapeutic bladder irrigation for treatment of malignancy or 
of interstitial cystitis 
$68.50 
 
$61.60 
 
0 
L 
«CODE:189R» Bladder hydrodistension for patients with interstitial cystitis or 
clinical presentation strongly suggestive of interstitial cystitis  -- 
payable in addition to cystoscopy 
$100.00 
$89.95 
0 
L 
«CODE:90R» Cystotomy -- with trochar 
$200.00 
$200.00 
10 
L 
«CODE:91R» Cystotomy -- with removal of stone, foreign body, etc. 
$443.80 
$399.35 
42 
L 
«CODE:92R» Cystotomy -- excision, electro-resection or fulguration of bladder  
$306.90 
$276.20 
42 
L 
 
 
tumor with or without radiation implants 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:93R» Cystectomy -- partial 
$1,000.00 
$899.95 
42 
M 
«CODE:94R» Cystectomy -- partial with ureteral reimplantation 
$1,500.00 
$1,350.00 
42 
M 
«CODE:95R» Cystectomy -- total -- with ureterointestinal transplant 
$2,303.60 
$2,073.35 
42 
H 
«CODE:96R» Cystectomy -- with ureteroileal conduit 
$3,433.00 
$3,089.70 
42 
H 
«CODE:97R» Cystectomy -- with rectal bladder and colostomy 
$2,805.70 
$2,525.30 
42 
H 
«CODE:100R» Diverticulectomy 
$825.80 
$743.15 
42 
M 
«CODE:101R» Resection ureteral stump 
$493.00 
$443.70 
42 
L 
«CODE:102R» Ileocystoplasty 
$2,059.80 
$1,853.75 
42 
H 
«CODE:103R» Surgical repair of ruptured bladder 
$687.60 
$618.80 
42 
M 
 


--- Page 298 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 298
 
S E C T I O N  R – Urological Surgery   
Specialist 
General 
Practitioner 
Class 
Anes 
«CODE:104R» Ureterocutaneous anastomosis -- unilateral 
$391.50 
$352.70 
42 
M 
«CODE:105R» Ureterocutaneous anastomosis -- bilateral 
$577.80 
$520.20 
42 
M 
«CODE:106R» Ileal conduit 
$1,714.30 
$1,542.85 
42 
H 
«CODE:109R» Bladder neck plasty 
$647.90 
$583.10 
42 
M 
«CODE:110R» Insertion of artificial urinary sphincter 
$1,000.00 
$900.00 
42 
M 
 
«L3:Prostate»
 
 
 
 
«CODE:120R» Prostate -- abscess -- incision 
$144.40 
$144.40 
42 
L 
«CODE:121R» Prostate -- biopsy -- needle 
$89.20 
$80.25 
D 
L 
«CODE:122R» Open perineal prostatic biopsy 
$562.80 
$506.70 
42 
L 
«CODE:126R» Ultrasound guided prostate biopsy 
$135.60 
$122.00 
D 
L 
«CODE:123R» Prostatectomy -- or laser ablation 
$800.00 
$720.00 
42 
M 
«CODE:124R» Radical prostatectomy  -- excludes exploration and biopsy of pelvic 
lymph nodes 
$2,059.80 
 
$1,853.75 
 
42 
H 
«CODE:125R» Seminal vesiculectomy 
$933.20 
$839.85 
42 
M 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«L3:Kidney and Ureter»
 
 
 
 
«CODE:130R» Kidney -- rupture -- repair 
$1,171.10 
$1,053.95 
42 
H 
«CODE:131R» Renal biopsy -- percutaneous -- unilateral 
$127.40 
$114.70 
D 
L 
«CODE:133R» Renal biopsy -- open exposure 
$430.10 
$387.20 
42 
M 
«CODE:134R» Perinephric abscess -- drainage 
$476.20 
$428.55 
42 
M 
«CODE:135R» Exploration of kidney -- not paid in addition to renal surgery 
$647.90 
$583.10 
42 
M 
«CODE:136R» Nephrectomy -- complete or partial 
$1,700.00 
$1,530.00 
42 
H 
«CODE:138R» Nephrectomy -- thoraco-abdominal radical nephrectomy 
$1,700.00 
$1,530.00 
42 
H 
«CODE:139R» Nephrolithotomy or nephrotomy, pyelolithotomy or pyelotomy 
$944.10 
$849.65 
42 
M 
«CODE:140R» Nephropexy -- not paid in addition to renal surgery 
$286.70 
$258.45 
42 
M 
«CODE:141R» Nephrostomy or pyelostomy and ureterostomy 
$687.60 
$618.80 
42 
M 
«CODE:142R» Ileal substitution for ureter 
$1,400.80 
$1,261.10 
42 
H 
«CODE:143R» Exploration ureter for lesion or trauma in conjunction with or for 
other surgeons 
$489.80 
 
$440.85 
 
42 
M 
«CODE:144R» Plastic -- renal pelvis and/or ureter 
$1,235.00 
$1,111.50 
42 
M 
«CODE:145R» Ureterolysis or pelviolysis 
$689.80 
$620.80 
42 
M 
«CODE:146R» Ureterolithotomy -- upper 2/3 
$663.00 
$596.65 
42 
M 
«CODE:147R» Ureterolithotomy -- lower 1/3 
$635.30 
$571.85 
42 
M 
«CODE:158R» Ureterolithotomy -- following previous ureteral surgery 
$642.30 
$578.10 
42 
M 
«CODE:148R» Resection of ureterovesical junction 
$493.00 
$443.70 
42 
M 
«CODE:149R» Horseshoe symphysiotomy 
$616.80 
$555.60 
42 
M 
«CODE:150R» Hypothermia to kidney, add 
$46.60 
$46.60 
42 
 
«CODE:151R» Ureteroneocystostomy -- single 
$894.90 
$805.40 
42 
M 
«CODE:152R» Ureteroneocystostomy -- bilateral 
$1,114.70 
$1,003.20 
42 
M 
«CODE:153R» Repair of ureteral fistula 
$841.50 
$757.30 
42 
M 
«CODE:154R» Intubated ureterotomy and/or ureterolysis 
$670.70 
$603.60 
42 
M 
«CODE:155R» Renal cyst -- excision of -- single or multiple -- one kidney 
$687.60 
$618.80 
42 
M 


--- Page 299 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 299
 
S E C T I O N  R – Urological Surgery   
Specialist 
General 
Practitioner 
Class 
Anes 
«CODE:156R» Nephrostomy tube -- routine change 
$30.00 
$30.00 
0 
L 
«CODE:157R» Nephrostomy tube -- emergency reinsertion 
$57.50 
$51.75 
0 
L 
«CODE:258R» Ureteral stent -- placement -- unilateral 
$178.90 
$161.05 
10 
L 
«CODE:259R» Ureteral stent -- replacement 
$178.90 
$161.05 
10 
L 
«CODE:659R» Ureteral stent -- removal 
$132.90 
$119.55 
0 
L 
 
«L3:Scrotum and Contents»
 
 
 
 
«CODE:160R» Open testicular biopsy 
$200.00 
$180.05 
0 
L 
«CODE:161R» Epididymectomy -- unilateral 
$419.70 
$377.70 
42 
L 
«CODE:162R» Hydrocele or epididymal cyst -- aspirate 
$33.80 
$33.80 
0 
L 
«CODE:163R» Hydrocele or epididymal cyst -- surgical repair 
$315.00 
$315.00 
42 
L 
«CODE:164R» Varicocele – repair 
$450.00 
$450.00 
42 
L 
«CODE:165R» Varicocele -- with exploration of inguinal canal 
$341.20 
$341.20 
42 
L 
«CODE:166R» Orchiectomy -- unilateral 
$200.00 
$200.00 
42 
L 
«CODE:167R» Orchiectomy -- bilateral 
$350.00 
$350.00 
42 
L 
«CODE:168R» Retroperitoneal exploration for testicle 
$504.50 
$454.10 
42 
M 
«CODE:169R» Orchiopexy -- unilateral -- Includes simple herniotomy -- 
herniorrhaphy paid in addition 
$614.30 
 
$552.90 
 
42 
L 
«CODE:170R» Orchiolysis 
$46.50 
$46.50 
42 
L 
«CODE:171R» Torsion -- testis or appendix testis with fixation of contralateral 
testis 
$600.00 
$600.00 
42 
L 
«CODE:180R» Orchiectomy with excision at internal ring -- unilateral 
$400.00 
$359.90 
42 
L 
«CODE:190R» Vasectomy -- unilateral or bilateral 
$275.00 
$275.00 
42 
L 
«CODE:191R» Vasovasostomy limited to the treatment of post vasectomy pain 
syndrome -- unilateral 
$1,000.00 
$900.00 
42 
L 
«CODE:192R» Epididymovasostomy -- unilateral 
$565.10 
$508.65 
42 
L 
«CODE:193R» Insertion of testicular prosthesis -- independent procedure 
$559.90 
$559.90 
42 
L 
«CODE:194R» Vasogram -- unilateral or bilateral -- in conjunction with open scrotal 
procedure -- add 
$61.10 
$61.10 
D 
L 
«CODE:195R» Vasogram -- unilateral or bilateral -- independent procedure 
$56.00 
$56.00 
D 
L 
 
«L3:Intra-abdominal»
 
 
 
 
«CODE:202R» Exploration and biopsy of pelvic lymph nodes 
$687.40 
$618.65 
42 
M 
«CODE:203R» Pelvic lymphadenectomy 
$1,028.90 
$926.05 
42 
M 
 
«L3:Percutaneous Nephrolithotripsy»
 
 
 
 
«CODE:251R» Dilatation of nephrostomy tract -- add 
$135.00 
$121.55 
0 
 
«CODE:252R» Nephroscopy through nephrostomy tract – add 
$173.70 
$156.35 
D 
 
 
Removal of calculi by basket, ultrasonic disintegration or 
electrohydraulic lithotripsy  
 
 
 
 
«CODE:253R»  -- small – single 
$411.40 
$370.25 
42 
M 
«CODE:254R»  -- multiple 
$687.60 
$618.80 
42 
M 
«CODE:255R»  --  large -- (greater than 2 cm.) 
$961.80 
$865.60 
42 
M 
«CODE:256R» Extracorporeal Shockwave Lithotripsy (ESWL) -- unilateral 
$526.40 
$473.75 
42 
M 


--- Page 300 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 300
 
 
S E C T I O N  R – Urological Surgery   
Specialist 
General 
Practitioner 
Class 
Anes 
«CODE:580R» BMI Supplement - Urology surgery supplement for patients with a 
Body Mass Index, (Weight [kg]/Height [m] 2) greater than 40 
$125.00 
 
 
 
 
 
1. Maximum of one 580R supplement per patient per day.  
2. Supplement 580R may be billed by urologists with all R Section 
procedures done in the operating room. 
3. Service codes 30R and 31R are exempt from this supplement. 
4. BMI supplements are not payable to the surgical assistant billing 
"J" section codes. 
 
 
 
 

```
«L1:SECTION R – Urological Surgery»

«L2:Renal Homotransplantation»

All services are billed in the name of the recipient by the surgeons and 
internists and include all services to a living donor and the recipient on 
day of transplant and for 42 days thereafter except: 

a) A consultation by a physician other than the Urological or  

Vascular surgeons, or Internists; 

b) Anesthetic services. 

«L3:Donor nephrectomy -- living donor or cadaver»

«CODE:300R» One surgeon  $1,567.40  42 M
«CODE:301R» Two surgeons -- first $669.80  42 M
«CODE:311R» Two surgeons -- second $608.60  42 M
«CODE:302R» Renal perfusion  $163.50  0 
«CODE:303R» Renal implantation -- urology component $545.40  42 M
«CODE:304R» Renal implantation -- vascular component $1,143.90  42 H
«CODE:340R» Intra-operative biopsy of donor kidney -- add $52.40  D 
«CODE:305R» Renal implantation -- Internist services – total, includes 306R and 307R $3,297.10  42 
«CODE:306R» Internist services in donor kidney procurement in other than the transplant center $208.00  0 
«CODE:307R» Internist services in the provision of renal implant and follow-up services $3,333.80  42 
«CODE:308R» Follow-up of renal implant patient $270.40   

308R is payable for a visit to provide assessment and ongoing 
management of a patient's condition following a kidney transplant.  

1. This service is payable to the physician designated as the most 
responsible physician for monitoring the post-transplant status of 
the patient. 

2. Not payable in addition to other visit services or dialysis, or within 
42 days of the previous 308R.  

3. Limited to six 308R services per patient per year (beginning April 1 
of each year).  

4. Not payable in the first 12 months following a transplant. 

«CODE:356R» Hypospadias -- first stage repair $425.00 $382.50 42 L
«CODE:357R» Hypospadias -- second stage (urethroplasty) $605.90 $545.30 42 L
«CODE:657R» Single stage hypospadias repair $1,200.00 $1,080.00 42 L
«CODE:358R» Single stage hypospadias repair -- urethral fistula repair $151.90 $136.60 42 L
«CODE:359R» Epispadias $314.00 $282.40 42 L

---

BLANK PAGE INTENTIONAL

---

«L1:SECTION S – Ophthalmology»

«L2:Visits»

«CODE:5S» Initial assessment -- of a specific condition includes: $70.00* $56.00*
a) pertinent family history; 
b) patient history; 
c) history of presenting 
complaint; 
d) functional enquiry; 
e) examination of affected part(s) 
or system(s); 
f) 
diagnosis; 
g) assessment; 
h) necessary treatment; 
i) 
advice to the patient; and, 
j) 
record of service provided. 

«CODE:7S» Follow-up assessment -- includes:  $45.00* $38.75*
a) history review; 
b) functional enquiry; 
c) examination;  
d) reassessment; 
e) necessary treatment; 
f) 
advice to the patient; and, 
g) record of service provided. 

«CODE:8S» Neuro-ophthalmology follow-up assessment -- includes:  $70.00* $63.00*
a) history review; 
b) functional enquiry; 
c) examination; 
d) reassessment; 
e) necessary treatment; 
f) 
advice to the patient; and, 
g) record of the service provided. 
h) only payable to physicians with 
approved training in neuro-
ophthalmology. 

«CODE:9S» Consultation – includes: 
a) all visits necessary; 
b) history and examination; 
c) review of laboratory and/or other data; 
d) written submission of the consultant's opinion; and,  
e) recommendations to the referring doctor. 
$89.35* 

«CODE:10S» Neuro-ophthalmology consultation – includes: $175.00* 

a) all visits necessary; 
b) history and examination; 
c) review of laboratory and/or other data;  
d) written submission of the consultant's opinion; and, 
e) recommendations to the referring doctor. 

f) 
only payable to physicians with approved training in neuro-
ophthalmology. 

«CODE:11S» Repeat consultation $56.00* 

A formal consultation for the same or related condition repeated within 90 days 
by the same physician.  Repeat consultation is only to be billed when it is 
generated by a new formal request by the referring physician. It should not be 
used for routine follow-up of the patient for which either service code '5' "partial 
assessment or subsequent review" or service code '7' "follow-up assessment" are 
appropriate. 

«CODE:12S» Low vision assessment - limited to 1 benefit per beneficiary per 12-month period $200.00* 

*  Payment for patients 0-5 years of age and patients 65 years of age and older 
are automatically applied. 

«CODE:6S» Routine examination of eyes (reference Item A, page 306) $70.00 $53.20 

---

«L2:Hospital Care – Payable on day of admission»

Hospital care is billable by the physician responsible for inpatient care of patients 
admitted to hospital. Hospital care includes all of the routine services required to 
manage in hospital care. Additional services provided as a result of an acute episode 
may be payable with an explanation. 

Post-operative hospital care is included in the surgical fee and can only be paid if 
hospital care is provided by another physician for a condition unrelated to the surgery. 
Upon transfer of hospital care to another physician, billing of hospital care should be as 
if there was a continuation of care under the same physician. An assessment or 
consultation may not be billed when hospital care is transferred to another physician. 

Hospital care may be billed for short term acute care patients who are admitted to a 
health centre in the same manner as an acute care hospital. Physicians may not use 
hospital care to cover in-hospital patients who are designated as long-term care. These 
patients are to be billed under codes 627A-629A – Special Care Home Management. 

«CODE:25S» -- 1-10 days -- per day -- bill units (max 10) $30.00 $30.00
«CODE:26S» -- 11-20 days -- per day -- bill units (max 10) $30.00 $30.00
«CODE:27S» -- 21-30 days -- per day -- bill units (max 10) $30.00 $30.00
«CODE:28S» -- 31 days and thereafter -- per day -- bill units (max 99) $30.00 $30.00

---

«L2:Virtual Care Services»

Please see Virtual Care preamble in the introductory section of the Payment Schedule for 
more information. 

«CODE:807S» Virtual follow-up assessment provided via telephone or secure videoconference-- 
includes: $40.50 $34.90
a) history review; 
b) functional enquiry; 
c) reassessment;  
d) necessary treatment;  
e) advice to the patient; and  
f) record of service provided.  

«CODE:808S» Virtual neuro-ophthalmology follow-up assessment provided via telephone or secure 
videoconference – includes: $63.00 $56.70
a) history review; 
b) functional enquiry; 
c) reassessment;  
d) necessary treatment;  
e) advice to the patient; and  
f) record of service provided.  

Note: 808S is only payable to physicians with approved training in neuro-ophthalmology. 

«CODE:809S» Virtual consultation provided via telephone or secure videoconference-- includes: $80.40 
a) all visits necessary;  
b) history; 
c) review of laboratory and/or other data; 
d) written submission of the consultant's opinion; and 
e) recommendations to the referring doctor. 

«CODE:811S» Repeat virtual consultation provided via telephone or secure videoconference: $50.40 

A formal virtual consultation for the same or related condition repeated within 90 days 
by the same physician. Repeat virtual consultation is only to be billed when it is 
generated by a new formal request by the referring physician. It should not be used for 
routine virtual follow-up of the patient for which service code '807S" "Virtual follow-up 
assessment" is appropriate. 

---

A. 
6S -- Routine examination of eyes: 

Eligibility: Beneficiaries under 18, social assistance recipients nominated to receive Supplementary Health 
Benefits and adult recipients of the Family Health Plan and the Saskatchewan Income Plan Supplement. 
 1. 
 means an examination of the eyes that shall include: 
a) case history 
b) visual acuity 
c) external examination 
d) assessment of extraocular muscles 
e) convergence testing 
f) 
pupil response 
g) accommodation 
h) examination of cornea, lens, media, fundus 
i) 
determination of refractive error or change 
j) 
instruction, information and advice to the patient with respect to the status of their vision 
k) and its future management 
l) 
provision of the necessary prescription 
 2. 
is restricted in the payment of the listed specialist fee; only a specialist in Ophthalmology or the combined 
specialty of Ophthalmology and Otolaryngology receives payment at the specialist fee when treating a 
referred patient. In all other instances, the "Not Referred" listing is paid. 
 3. 
is approved only once within a period of 12 consecutive months for individuals under 18 and eligible 
beneficiaries over 64 and within a period of 24 months for eligible beneficiaries between 18 and 64, for the 
same physician or clinic, unless: 

a) the beneficiary was referred by a physician for the refraction; or, 
b) Saskatchewan Health approved the second refraction on the basis of the reported medical factors; 
or, 
c) change in the degree of refractive error which necessitated the current refraction. (Current and 
previous refractive changes should be indicated on the claim form or on a comment record of direct 
input claim). 

4. 
Payment eligibility for 6S Routine Examination of eyes is limited to specialist ophthalmologists and to those 
physicians who are granted special licensure under Section 30 of The Medical Profession Act to engage in 
practice limited to ophthalmology. 

5. 
Those physicians who have completed a full program of post-graduate ophthalmology, who restrict their 
practise to that discipline and who currently receive payment for ophthalmology services continue to be 
eligible to bill code 6S. 
B. 
Payment for retinal detachment includes payment for light coagulation if performed as an adjunct to surgery or 
within the designated post-operative period, by the same physician, a general practitioner in the same clinic, or a 
specialist in the same specialty and clinic 

---

«CODE:32S» Tension -- measured with a tonometer – bilateral $12.50 $12.50 D 
«CODE:332S» Diurnal tension curve – bilateral $73.40 $66.10 D 
«CODE:33S» Gonioscopy – bilateral $24.00 $24.00 D 
«CODE:534S» Formal orthoptic assessment interpretation $40.00 $36.00 D 
«CODE:580S» Corneal pachymetry (repeat by report only) – bilateral $8.15 $8.15 D 
«CODE:15S» Cycloplegic retinoscopy -- under 11 years age $45.00 $45.00 D 
«CODE:535S» Orthopic technical fee 
a) Bilateral  
b) Add to 5S, 6S, 7S, 9S, 10S, 11S, 12S, 534S 
c) For billing of technical component see "Definitions" (19) and 
"Services Supervised by a Physician". 
$30.00 $30.00 D 
«CODE:651S» Automated perimetry/specular microscopy/topography 
a) Technical fee  
b) Bilateral  
c) Add to 34S, 35S, 36S, 650S, 671S  
d) 1 per patient visit 
e) For billing of technical component see "Definitions" (19) and 
"Services Supervised by a Physician". 
$13.50 $13.50 D 
«CODE:579S» Screening visual fields (FDT or Similar)  
a) Technical fee  
b) Bilateral  
c) Limit of 1 per visit  
d) Only payable with 34S 
e) For billing of technical component see "Definitions" (19) and 
"Services Supervised by a Physician". 
$4.00 $4.00 D 

«L3:Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT), bilateral»

Not to be used for routine screening of patients and limit of one per 
year (professional and technical) when billed for monitoring 
glaucoma patients. For billing of technical component see 
"Definitions" (19) and "Services Supervised by a Physician". 

«CODE:581S» Optical Coherence Tomography -- professional  $25.50 $22.90 D 
«CODE:582S» Optical Coherence Tomography -- technical  $25.50 $25.50 D 

«CODE:34S» Screening visual field including tangent screen, auto plot arc 
perimetry and frequency doubling screening – bilateral $9.00 $9.00 D 
«CODE:35S» Central threshold visual field – bilateral $19.90 $19.90  
«CODE:36S» Central and peripheral visual field – bilateral $40.80 $40.80 D 
«CODE:422S» Manual static and kinetic perimetry – bilateral $39.80 $39.80 D 
«CODE:37S» Provocative tests for glaucoma – bilateral $12.20 $12.20 D 
«CODE:39S» Fundus examination under general anesthetic-- unilateral or bilateral $263.10 $263.10 D L
«CODE:424S»  Forced Duction Test -- local $53.60 $53.60 D 
«CODE:425S»  Forced Duction Test -- general $95.40 $95.40 D L

---

For billing of technical component see "Definitions" (19) and "Services 
Supervised by a Physician"  

«CODE:652S»   Fundus or Slit Lamp Photography, bilateral -- professional component $6.10 $6.10 D 
«CODE:653S»   Fundus or Slit Lamp Photography, bilateral -- technical component $6.10 $6.10 D 

«L3:Fluorescein Angiography»

a) Apparatus owned by physician and injection by physician.  
b) Use 111A if IV injection only by the physician 

«CODE:40S» Fluorescein Angiography -- technical component  $35.00 $35.00 D 
«CODE:41S» Fluorescein Angiography -- professional component $55.00 $55.00 D 

«CODE:42S» Visually evoked occipital response interpretation $15.00 $15.00 D 
«CODE:43S» Electroretinography interpretation $37.00 $37.00 D 
«CODE:44S» Electro-oculography interpretation $37.00 $37.00 D 

«CODE:45S» Color vision assessment - F.M. 100 Hue Test or Pickford Anomaloscope -- 
technical component $10.20 $10.20 D 
«CODE:46S» Color vision assessment - F.M. 100 Hue Test or Pickford Anomaloscope -- 
professional component $17.10 $17.10 D 

«CODE:650S» Contact or non-contact specular microscopy of corneal endothelium, 
unilateral, bill units -- professional component  $22.40 $22.40 D 
«CODE:429S» Laser Inferometry $5.50 $5.50 D 
«CODE:430S» Potential Acuity Meter $2.10 $2.10 D 
«CODE:656S» Exophthalmometry $6.10 $6.10 D 
«CODE:658S» Dark adaptation curve, both eyes -- professional component $20.20 $20.20 D 
«CODE:661S» Hess or Lees test $40.80 $40.80 D 
«CODE:664S» Indirect ophthalmoscopy with scleral depression for complete examination 
of fundus and diagraming -- unilateral or bilateral $18.40 $18.40 D 
«CODE:~680S» Infrared pupillography – bilateral $31.80 $28.65 D 
«CODE:~681S» Eye movement videography/photography – bilateral $31.80 $28.65 D 
«CODE:~682S» Quantification of relative afferent pupillary defect with neural density 
filters – bilateral $31.80 $28.65 D 
«CODE:~683S» Diagnostic pupillary drop testing – bilateral $39.75 $35.80 D 

@  Codes 680S to 683S are only billable by physicians with approved 
neuro-ophthalmology training 

---

«L2:Procedures»

Additional payments for diagnostic service excluding ECGs, 0, 10 or 42 
day operative procedures performed on patients under one (1) year of 
age are automatically calculated and paid as explained in Section A. 

«L3:Eyelids»

«CODE:60S» Abscess – incision $23.85 $23.85 0 L

«L4:Blepharoplasty»

1. When one eyelid is altered due to the below, trauma, or ablative 
cancer surgery then a contralateral balancing procedure is 
insured. 
2. Fee for correction of blepharoptosis includes associated 
blepharoplasty. 
3. Ptosis repair includes associated blepharoplasty.  
4. Prior approval is not required. 
5. See Cosmetic Surgery Protocol - Section N–Surgery of 
Appearance. 

Upper lids: 

a) Blepharoplasty of the upper eyelids is insured if there is 
obstruction of the visual axis caused by the redundant eyelid skin 
and/or lash inversion with ocular irritation.  
b) Sufficient evidence to support this must be documented in the 
patient record. 

Lower lids: 

a) Blepharoplasty of the lower eyelids is insured when: 
 The deformity results in exophthalmos, ectropion, or interferes 
with wearing eyeglasses; or, 
 Orbital fat/orbital septal pathology due to endocrine or other 
disease; or, 
 Ophthalmological confirmation of interference with bifocal 
lens.  
b) Sufficient evidence to support this must be documented in the 
patient record. 

«CODE:61S» Blepharoplasty -- excision of skin and/or muscle, unilateral, upper lid $122.30 $110.10 10 L
«CODE:62S» Blepharoplasty -- excision of skin and/or muscle, unilateral, lower lid $122.30 $110.10 10 L
«CODE:276S» Blepharoplasty -- with orbital fat excision or repositioning, unilateral, 
upper lid $254.90 $229.40 42 L
«CODE:277S» Blepharoplasty -- with orbital fat excision or repositioning, unilateral, 
lower lid $236.50 $213.10 42 L

«CODE:63S» Chalazion -- removal $76.50 $76.50 10 L
«CODE:64S» Chalazion – removal -- under general anesthetic or IV sedation (includes 
post-op recovery) $183.45 $183.45 10 L

«CODE:65S» Cauterization – lid $20.90 $20.90 0 L

«L4:Trichiasis»

«CODE:66S» Epilation – unilateral $28.00 $28.00 0 L
«CODE:431S» Electrolysis or laser ablation – unilateral $33.60 $33.60 10 L
«CODE:432S» Cryotherapy – unilateral $66.50 $59.80 10 L

---

«L4:Districhiasis»

«CODE:436S» Permanent repair -- per lid $242.60 $218.40 42 L
«CODE:67S» Ziegler puncture $26.50 $26.50 10 L
«CODE:68S» Tarsorrhaphy -- temporary or reversal $69.60 $62.55 10 L
«CODE:69S» Tarsorrhaphy -- permanent -- double adhesion $171.25 $154.15 42 L

«CODE:80S» Ectropion -- surgical repair $326.20 $293.60 42 L
«CODE:81S» Entropion -- surgical repair $326.20 $293.60 42 L

«CODE:75S» Ptosis -- simple repair $407.80 $367.00 42 L
«CODE:439S» Ptosis -- complicated repair with graded tarsomeuller resection, add $96.90 $87.20 42 L
«CODE:440S» Ptosis -- with fascia lata sling – add $96.90 $87.20 42 L
«CODE:441S» Ptosis -- with levator excision – add $96.90 $87.20 42 L
«CODE:442S» Ptosis -- with aponeurosis reinsertion – add $96.90 $87.20 42 L

Blepharoplasty included in the fees for ptosis repair 

«L4:Lid Lengthening»

«CODE:444S» Graded meullerectomy $362.90 $326.60 42 L
«CODE:445S» Graded meullerectomy -- with levator recession, add $61.20 $55.10 42 L
«CODE:446S» Graded meullerectomy -- with scleral graft, add $61.20 $55.10 42 L

«CODE:70S» Eyelid or Conjunctival Tumor - Excision – without sutures $53.55 $53.55 10 L

Excision – repair with sutures (use 380N) 

«CODE:77S» Full thickness excision of benign or malignant tumor with plastic repair 
using conjunctiva $183.50 $165.20 42 L

«L4:Lid Laceration (upon referral to Ophthalmologist)»

«CODE:72S» Lid Laceration -- simple repair $61.20 $61.20 10 L
«CODE:448S» Lid Laceration -- full thickness $152.90 $137.60 42 L
«CODE:449S» Lid Laceration -- full thickness -- lid margin $183.50 $165.20 42 L
«CODE:454S» Lid Laceration -- full thickness plus levator division $242.60 $218.40 42 L
«CODE:73S» Lid Laceration -- repair of canaliculus -- old or recent $407.80 $367.00 42 L

«CODE:450S» Lid Defect -- closure with rotation flap $242.60 $218.40 42 L
«CODE:451S» Lid Defect -- closure with rotation flap plus cantholysis – add $61.20 $55.10 42 L
«CODE:452S» Lid Defect -- closure with temporal flap and cantholysis – add $163.10 $146.80 42 L
«CODE:453S» Lid Defect -- closure with free posterior lamellar graft – add $138.70 $125.40 42 L

«CODE:455S» Upper or lower eyelid bridge flap -- first stage $535.20 $481.70 42 L
«CODE:456S» Upper or lower eyelid bridge flap -- second stage $91.80 $82.60 42 L

«CODE:457S» Free composite eyelid graft $463.90 $418.00 42 L
```

Here is the tagged content according to the provided instructions:

--- Page 311 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 311
 
 
«L1:S E C T I O N  S – Ophthalmology»
Specialist 
General 
Practitioner 
Class 
Anes 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:458S» Medial canthoplasty 
$305.90 
$275.30 
42 
L 
«CODE:459S» Medial canthal tendon injury -- repair 
$242.60 
$218.40 
42 
L 
«CODE:460S» Medial canthal tendon injury -- with boney fixation – add 
$91.80 
$82.60 
42 
L 
«CODE:461S» Medial or lateral cantholysis 
$123.40 
$111.00 
42 
L 
«CODE:462S» Lateral canthopexy – primary 
$242.60 
$218.40 
42 
L 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«L3:Lacrimal Tract»
 
 
 
 
«CODE:50S» Duct Probing -- local anesthesia 
$30.60 
$30.60 
0 
 
«CODE:51S» Duct Probing -- general anesthesia 
$183.45 
$183.45 
0 
 
«CODE:52S» Duct probing and insertion of plastic tube or similar method, total care 
$250.80 
$225.75 
10 
L 
«CODE:464S» Duct probing -- with turbinate fracture, add 
$25.50 
$25.50 
0 
L 
«CODE:466S» Tube change or reinsertion -- local or general after 10 days 
$61.20 
$55.10 
0 
L 
«CODE:54S» Dacryocystectomy 
$201.90 
$182.50 
42 
L 
«CODE:55S» Dacryocystorhinostomy 
$535.20 
$481.70 
42 
M 
«CODE:468S» Dacryocystorhinostomy -- with lacrimal bypass or canalicular 
reconstruction, add  
$73.40 
$66.10 
42 
L 
«CODE:469S» "Three Snip" procedure on punctum 
$73.40 
$66.10 
10 
L 
«CODE:470S» Canaliculotomy 
$36.70 
$36.70 
0 
L 
«CODE:471S» Closure of punctum by cautery -- unilateral or bilateral 
$73.40 
$66.10 
0 
L 
«CODE:472S» Drainage of lacrimal sac abscess 
$62.50 
$62.50 
0 
L 
«CODE:573S» Punctal Plugs - per punctum -- bill units (max 2) 
$66.30 
$59.60 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«L3:Extraocular Muscles»
 
 
 
 
 
Recession, resection, myotomy, myectomy, oblique weakening or 
strengthening 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:130S» -- 
first muscle 
$568.35 
$511.45 
42 
M 
«CODE:131S» --  second muscle -- either eye  
$424.35
$381.85 
$424.35 
$381.85 
42 
M 
«CODE:132S» --  any additional muscle (s) -- either eye  
$146.50
$131.90 
$146.50 
$131.90 
42 
M 
«CODE:133S» --  adjustable suture technique per muscle  
$318.60
$286.75 
$318.60 
$286.75 
42 
M 
«CODE:134S» --  two muscle transposition procedure 
$816.60 
$735.00 
42 
M 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For billing of technical component see "Definitions" (19) and "Services 
Supervised by a Physician" 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:690S» Corneal collagen cross-linking -- professional fee 
$543.40 
$489.10 
42 
L 
«CODE:691S» Corneal collagen cross-linking -- technical fee 
$509.80 
$509.80 
 
L 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«L3:Conjunctiva – Cornea – Sclera»
 
 
 
 
«CODE:88S» Removal of corneal tattooing 
$69.40 
$62.50 
10 
L 
«CODE:89S» Biopsy of conjunctiva 
$53.50 
$53.50 
D 
L 

--- Page 312 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 312
 
 
S E C T I O N  S – Ophthalmology 
Specialist 
General 
Practitioner 
Class 
Anes 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conjunctiva – Cornea – Sclera 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:90S» Conjunctiva, cornea, sclera - foreign body or bodies -- removal -- 
unembedded 
$23.60 
$23.60 
0 
L 
«CODE:91S» Conjunctiva, cornea, sclera - foreign body or bodies -- removal -- 
embedded - local anesthesia 
$51.30 
$46.20 
0 
L 
«CODE:106S» Conjunctiva, cornea, sclera - foreign body or bodies -- removal -- 
general anesthesia 
$169.80 
$152.70 
10 
L 
«CODE:671S» Corneal topography - interpretation fee (only for corneal pathology i.e. 
not billable for refractive surgical assessments) unilateral or bilateral 
$26.50 
$23.90 
D 
L 
«CODE:92S» Keratectomy – superficial 
$367.00 
$330.30 
42 
L 
«CODE:93S» Keratoplasty – lamellar 
$560.70 
$504.70 
42 
L 
«CODE:94S» Keratoplasty – penetrating 
$1,014.40 
$913.00 
42 
M 
«CODE:95S» Pterygium -- any method 
$321.20 
$289.05 
42 
L 
«CODE:96S» Subconjunctival injection 
$22.90 
$22.90 
0 
L 
«CODE:97S» Corneal ulcer -- cauterization -- initial or repeat 
$16.50 
$16.50 
0 
L 
«CODE:98S» Relaxing corneal incisions following corneal transplantation  
(This code does not apply to radial keratotomy) 
$254.90 
$229.40 
42 
L 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For billing of technical component see "Definitions" (19) and "Services 
Supervised by a Physician". 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:300S» Phototherapeutic keratectomy for anterior scarring, hereditary 
congenital dystrophy or recurrent erosion syndrome  
-- professional component 
$367.00 
$330.30 
42 
L 
«CODE:301S» Phototherapeutic keratectomy for anterior scarring, hereditary 
congenital dystrophy or recurrent erosion syndrome 
 -- technical component (physician owned equipment) 
$978.70 
$978.70 
 
L 
 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:250S» Removal of corneal sutures, by different surgeon or same surgeon 
beyond post-op period (does not apply to cataract or trabeculectomy 
corneal suture removal) 
$66.30 
$66.30 
0 
 
«CODE:99S» Conjunctival flap over ulcer or wound – simple 
$224.30 
$201.90 
42 
L 
«CODE:107S» Conjunctival flap over ulcer or wound -- Gunderson or complicated 
$509.80 
$458.80 
42 
M 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:100S» Wounds -- suture -- conjunctiva 
$128.40 
$128.40 
10 
L 
«CODE:101S» Wounds -- suture -- corneal or sclera -- without complication 
$560.70 
$504.70 
42 
M 
«CODE:102S» Wounds -- suture -- with prolapse by conjunctivoplasty 
$688.20 
$619.30 
42 
M 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:103S» Retrobulbar injection of alcohol 
$76.50 
$76.50 
0 
L 
«CODE:104S» Excision of corneal dermoid 
$305.90 
$275.30 
42 
L 
«CODE:474S» EDTA removal of band keratopathy 
$249.80 
$225.30 
10 
L 
«CODE:475S» Conjunctival resection for corneal melt 
$138.70 
$125.40 
0 
L 
«CODE:476S» Cyanoacrylate for corneal melt 
$229.40 
$206.40 
0 
L 
«CODE:522S» Re-operation through conjunctiva -- for glaucoma, strabismus and 
scleral buckling surgery, unilateral -- add to 160S, 130S, 131S, 132S, 
133S, 169S -- bill units 
$127.50 
$114.75 
42 
M 

--- Page 313 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 313
 
 
S E C T I O N  S – Ophthalmology 
Specialist 
General 
Practitioner 
Class 
Anes 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:477S» Epikeratophakia 
$607.60 
$547.50 
42 
L 
 
Pre-authorization required. Insured if:  
1) Adult aphakia with low endothelial count and intolerance to  
contact or intraocular lens.  
2) Pediatric aphakia with failure of visual rehabilitation.  
3) Keratoconus - with contact lens intolerance.  
4) Not an insured service when done as cosmetic procedure. 
 
«L3:Iris»
 
 
 
 
«CODE:182S» Iridotomy -- laser per eye -- bill units 
$145.00 
$130.50 
10 
 
«CODE:478S» Iridotomy – surgical 
$224.30 
$201.90 
42 
L 
«CODE:163S» Iridectomy – surgical 
$224.30 
$201.90 
42 
L 
«CODE:105S» Iridodialysis repair 
$267.65 
$240.85 
42 
 
«CODE:164S» Irrigation -- anterior chamber, through corneal incision 
$224.30 
$201.90 
42 
L 
«CODE:165S» Synechotomy -- anterior chamber, surgical 
$122.30 
$110.10 
42 
L 
«CODE:187S» Synechotomy -- anterior chamber, laser 
$81.60 
$73.40 
10 
L 
«CODE:166S» Paracentesis – aqueous 
$32.60 
$29.40 
0 
L 
«CODE:167S» Paracentesis – vitreous 
$51.00 
$45.90 
0 
L 
«CODE:186S» Photomydriasis 
$132.50 
$119.30 
10 
L 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«L3:Glaucoma»
 
 
 
 
«CODE:180S» Laser trabeculoplasty -- per eye -- bill units 
$165.00 
$148.50 
10 
 
«CODE:159S» Cyclodiathermy, cycloelectrolysis or cyclocryothermy 
$229.40 
$206.40 
42 
 
«CODE:160S» Filtering Operation – standard 
$611.70 
$550.50 
42 
M 
«CODE:520S» Filtering Operation -- with any seton device in the anterior chamber or 
through pars plana – add 
$265.10 
$238.60 
42 
 
«CODE:521S» Filtering Operation -- with the use of anti-metabolite drugs – add 
$91.80 
$82.60 
42 
M 
«CODE:190S» Cyclodialysis 
$91.80 
$82.60 
10 
L 
«CODE:161S» Goniotomy and/or goniopuncture – unilateral 
$184.50 
$166.10 
42 
L 
«CODE:162S» Goniotomy and/or goniopuncture – repeat 
$117.20 
$105.50 
42 
L 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:480S» Post-op trabeculectomy - cutting of sutures 
$61.20 
$55.10 
0 
L 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«L3:Lens»
 
 
 
 
«CODE:135S» Cataract -- complete treatment -- all forms, child or adult 
$311.50 
$280.75 
42 
L 
«CODE:136S» Cataract -- Implantation of prosthetic intraocular lens -- add -- bill units 
$86.00 
$86.00 
42 
L 
«CODE:236S» Prosthetic Intraocular lens – repositioning 
$144.80 
$130.30 
0 
L 
«CODE:336S» Prosthetic Intraocular lens – removal 
$132.50 
$119.30 
10 
L 
«CODE:479S» Removal and replacement 
$397.60 
$357.80 
42 
L 
«CODE:539S» Suture fixation of lens haptics to iris or scleral – add 
$600.00 
$539.95 
42 
L 
«CODE:142S» Secondary implantation of lens prosthesis-- simple -- intact vitreous  
$356.80 
$321.10 
42 
L 
 
Complicated with vitrectomy, use vitrectomy codes 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:139S» Crystalline Lens -- Removal of Dislocated -- anterior chamber 
$367.00 
$330.30 
42 
L 
«CODE:137S» Capsulectomy 
$254.90 
$229.40 
42 
L 
«CODE:138S» Capsulotomy or discission of secondary membranes (surgical) 
$152.90 
$137.60 
42 
L 
«CODE:189S» Posterior capsulotomy (laser) 
$138.00 
$124.15 
10 
L 

--- Page 314 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 314
 
 
S E C T I O N  S – Ophthalmology 
Specialist 
General 
Practitioner 
Class 
Anes 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
«L3:Complex Cataracts»
 
 
 
 
«CODE:673S» Pupil expansion device, insertion and removal, unilateral, bill units -- add 
to 135S, 139S, 142S, 226S, 236S, 220S, 230S 
$83.15 
$74.80 
42 
L 
«CODE:674S» Capsular tension ring or segment insertion, unilateral, bill units -- add to 
135S, 139S, 142S, 226S, 236S 
$87.70 
$78.90 
42 
L 
«CODE:675S» Capsular staining by any method, unilateral, bill units -- add to 135S, 139S, 
142S, 226S, 236S  
$25.50 
$22.90 
42 
L 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«L3:Sclera»
 
 
 
 
«CODE:481S» Scleral Patch Graft 
$428.20 
$385.40 
42 
M 
«CODE:482S» Noniatrogenic scleral dehiscence or rupture – repair 
$183.50 
$165.20 
42 
M 
«CODE:483S» Tumor of ciliary body 
By report 
42 
M 
 
«CODE:171S» Posterior sclerotomy with or without insufflation of anterior chamber 
$152.90 
$137.60 
10 
L 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«L3:Orbit»
 
 
 
 
«CODE:108S» Harvesting of donor eyes -- one or both -- for corneal transplant 
$305.90 
$275.30 
0 
L 
«CODE:109S» Orbit exenteration 
$713.70 
$642.30 
42 
M 
«CODE:110S» Orbit abscess -- incision and drainage (general practitioners – billable "by 
report" only) 
$281.40 
$253.20 
42 
L 
«CODE:111S» Orbit enucleation 
$481.75 
$433.55 
42 
M 
«CODE:112S» Orbit enucleation -- with insertion of an integrated orbital ocular implant 
in scleral shell – add 
$128.40 
$115.60 
42 
M 
«CODE:113S» Extruded implant - replace - secondary operation 
$290.60 
$261.00 
42 
L 
«CODE:540S» Secondary drilling of integrated orbital implant 
$190.60 
$171.60 
42 
L 
«CODE:313S» Dermal Fat Graft -- Immediately following enucleation 
$193.70 
$174.30 
42 
L 
«CODE:485S» Dermal Fat Graft -- delayed replacement of extruded implant by graft 
$489.40 
$440.40 
42 
L 
«CODE:78S» Fornix Restoration 
$356.80 
$321.10 
42 
L 
«CODE:487S» Fornix Restoration -- with mucous membrane graft – add 
$123.40 
$111.00 
42 
L 
«CODE:488S» Fornix Restoration -- with autogenous conjunctival transplant – add 
$112.10 
$100.90 
42 
L 
«CODE:413S» Reversal of anophthalmic socket with secondary integrated implant 
$341.50 
$307.40 
42 
L 
«CODE:114S» Orbit - excise anterior tumor 
$499.60 
$449.60 
42 
M 
«CODE:489S» Orbit - excise posterior tumor 
$776.90 
$698.40 
42 
M 
«CODE:490S» Orbit - biopsy anterior tumor 
$333.40 
$300.00 
10 
L 
«CODE:491S» Orbit - biopsy posterior tumor 
$458.80 
$412.90 
10 
L 
«CODE:292S» Exploration of orbital floor or medial wall for suspected blowout fracture 
$225.00 
$202.55 
42 
M 
«CODE:293S» Repair of orbital blowout fracture (floor or medial wall)  -- first wall 
$500.00 
$450.00 
42 
M 
«CODE:294S» Repair of orbital blowout fracture (floor or medial wall) -- second wall, 
add -- by report 
$300.00 
$270.00 
 
42 
M 
«CODE:119S» Lateral orbitotomy (Kronlein's procedure) or other decompression -- by 
report 
$968.50 
$871.70 
42 
M 
 
«L3:Retina»
 
 
 
 
«CODE:170S» Retinal tear -- complete treatment by diathermy, cryosurgery or laser 
$244.70 
$220.20 
42 
L 
«CODE:174S» Retinal tumor -- treatment by laser 
$397.60 
$357.80 
42 
L 
«CODE:670S» Retinal photography -- interpretation fee – bilateral 
$26.50 
$26.50 
D 
 

--- Page 315 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 315
 
 
S E C T I O N  S – Ophthalmology 
Specialist 
General 
Practitioner 
Class 
Anes 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Diabetic retinopathy or similar vascular abnormality, treatment by laser 
-- per eye 
 
 
 
 
 
Maximum benefit payable under codes 175S and 176S in any six 
consecutive month period per eye is 1 initial and 3 subsequent 
treatments. 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:175S»  -- initial treatment session 
$291.60 
$262.40 
42 
L 
«CODE:176S»  -- subsequent treatment -- per session 
$147.80 
$133.00 
0 
L 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:177S» Retinal 
degeneration 
or 
detachment 
treatment 
by 
diathermy, 
cryosurgery, or laser with or without hole 
$242.60 
$218.40 
42 
L 
«CODE:178S» Peripheral retinal diathermy, cryosurgery or photocoagulation 
$242.60 
$218.40 
42 
L 
«CODE:169S» Scleral buckling for retinal detachment includes -- diathermy, cryo or laser 
(includes 232S) 
$790.10 
$711.10 
42 
M 
«CODE:251S» Removal of scleral buckle hardware by different or same surgeon beyond 
post-op period 
$106.00 
$95.40 
10 
L 
«CODE:275S» Retinopathy of prematurity (preterm infants) (by laser), unilateral 
$509.80 
$458.80 
42 
H 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«L3:Macula»
 
 
 
 
«CODE:493S» Photocoagulation of choroidal neovascular membrane 
$242.60 
$218.40 
42 
L 
«CODE:494S» Photocoagulation of choroidal neovascular membrane -- subsequent 
treatment 
$181.50 
$163.30 
42 
L 
«CODE:495S» Focal Photocoagulation of significant diabetic macular edema 
$242.60 
$218.40 
42 
L 
«CODE:496S» Focal Photocoagulation of significant diabetic macular edema -- 
subsequent treatment 
$183.50 
$165.20 
42 
L 
 
1. Grid and focal therapy not paid together. 
2. Maximum benefit payable under codes 493S to 496S in any six 
consecutive month period per eye is 1 initial and 3 subsequent 
treatments.  
3. May be exceeded if extenuating circumstances (by report). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:497S» Photodynamic therapy (Visudyne) approved for cases of pathologic 
myopia or the classic form of age-related macular degeneration in 
patients with predominantly subfoveal choroidal neovascularization and 
choroidal neurovascularization secondary to histoplasmosis – unilateral 
$348.70 
$313.80 
42 
LB 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«L3:Vitreous»
 
 
 
 
 
Anterior vitrectomy – planned 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:220S» --  with or without penetrating wound 
$285.50 
$256.90 
42 
M 
«CODE:222S» --  with corneoscleral laceration repair, add 
$95.80 
$85.60 
42 
M 
«CODE:223S» --  with uveal tissue prolapse and repair, add 
$71.90 
$64.60 
42 
M 
«CODE:224S» --  with lensectomy, add 
$90.70 
$81.70 
42 
L 
«CODE:136S» --  Implantation of prosthetic intraocular lens, add 
$86.00 
$86.00 
42 
L 
 

--- Page 316 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 316
 
 
S E C T I O N  S – Ophthalmology 
Specialist 
General 
Practitioner 
Class 
Anes 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Posterior vitrectomy -- planned (includes anterior vitrectomy) 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:230S» --  pars plana 
$723.80 
$651.50 
42 
M 
«CODE:757S» --  with intravitreal injection of silicone oil, add 
$91.80 
$82.60 
42 
L 
«CODE:232S» --  with endophotocoagulation, add 
$123.40 
$123.40 
42 
L 
«CODE:224S» --  with lensectomy, add 
$90.70 
$81.70 
42 
L 
«CODE:225S» --  with preretinal membrane peeling- add 
$242.60 
$218.40 
42 
L 
«CODE:136S» --  Implantation of prosthetic intraocular lens, add 
$86.00 
$86.00 
42 
L 
«CODE:325S» --  removal of dislocated crystalline lens or cataract from the vitreal 
cavity , add 
$367.00 
$330.30 
42 
L 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:226S» Posterior vitrectomy with cataract extraction via separate anterior 
approach (includes lensectomy), add 
$332.40 
$299.10 
42 
M 
«CODE:515S» Air/gas/fluid exchange, add 
$152.90 
$137.60 
42 
L 
«CODE:516S» Air/gas/fluid exchange, repeat 
$91.80 
$82.60 
0 
L 
«CODE:233S» Removal of foreign body from anterior chamber (magnetic or 
nonmagnetic), add 
$61.20 
$55.10 
42 
L 
«CODE:234S» Removal of foreign body from posterior chamber (magnetic or 
nonmagnetic), add 
$123.40 
$111.00 
42 
M 
«CODE:141S» Removal of foreign body from anterior or posterior chamber or vitreous 
without vitrectomy -- any method 
$305.90 
$275.30 
42 
M 
«CODE:252S» Post-operative vitreous cavity washout by different surgeon or same 
surgeon beyond post-op period 
$112.10 
$100.90 
0 
L 
«CODE:254S» Intraocular fluid/gas exchange -- independent procedure 
$182.50 
$164.20 
42 
L 
«CODE:517S» Intraocular fluid/gas exchange – removal 
$123.40 
$111.00 
42 
L 
«CODE:755S» Vitreous tap with intravitreal injection of antibiotic/steroids in the 
management of bacterial endophthalmitis 
$193.70 
$174.30 
0 
L 
«CODE:756S» Intravitreal injection of drugs 
$102.00 
$91.80 
0 
L 
«CODE:518S» Pneumatic retinopexy with cryotherapy 
$504.70 
$454.20 
42 
M 
«CODE:285S» Dissection of vitreous bands or membranes with Yag laser  -- anterior 
segment 
$172.30 
$155.10 
42 
 
«CODE:286S» Dissection of vitreous bands or membranes with Yag laser -- posterior 
segment 
$362.90 
$326.60 
42 
 
«CODE:625S» Amniotic membrane transplantation -- unilateral -- second eye same day 
paid at 75% 
$382.30 
$344.10 
42 
M 
«CODE:181S» Laser Technical Components, per eye (unilateral) – laser owned and 
maintained by physician, bill 2 units for bilateral -- add to 170S, 174S, 
175S, 176S, 177S, 178S, 180S, 182S, 186S,187S, 189S, 285S, 286S, 493S, 
494S, 495S, 496S, 497S 
 
For billing of technical component see "Definitions" (19) and "Services 
Supervised by a Physician". 
 
Please note that 181S is considered an "add" code and must be submitted 
on the same claim number as one of the above-listed "base" codes.   
 
Example:   
Claim no  10001:  170S  (base code) 
Claim no  10001:  181S  (add code) 
$30.00 
$30.00 
D 
 
 

--- Page 317 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 317
 
 
«L1:S E C T I O N  T – Otolaryngology»  
Specialist in 
Otolaryngology 
 
 
Referred 
Not  
Referred 
 
 
 
 
 
«L2:Visits»
 
 
«CODE:5T» Initial assessment -- of a specific condition includes:  
$60.00* 
$48.00* 
 
a) pertinent family history; 
b) patient history; 
c) history of presenting complaint; 
d) functional enquiry; 
e) diagnosis-tentative or final; 
f) 
clinical examination of affected part(s) or system(s); 
g) necessary treatment; 
h) advice to the patient; and, 
i) 
record of service provided. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:7T» Follow-up assessment -- includes:  
$55.90* 
$54.30* 
 
a) history review;  
b) functional enquiry;  
c) clinical examination; 
d) diagnosis tentative or final; 
e) necessary treatment;  
f) 
advice to the patient; and,   
g) 
record of the service provided. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:9T» Consultation – includes: 
a) all visits necessary; 
b) history and examination; 
c) review of laboratory and/or other data; 
d) written submission of the consultant's opinion; and,  
e) recommendations to the referring doctor 
$93.30* 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:11T» Repeat consultation 
$59.00* 
 
 
A formal consultation for the same or related condition repeated within 90 days by the 
same physician.  Repeat consultation is only to be billed when it is generated by a new 
formal request by the referring physician. It should not be used for routine follow-up of the 
patient for which service code 7T "follow-up assessment" is appropriate. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
*  Payment for patients 0-5 years of age and patients 65 years of age and older are 
automatically applied. 
 
 
 

--- Page 318 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 318
 
 
S E C T I O N  T – Otolaryngology   
Specialist in 
Otolaryngology 
 
 
Referred 
Not  
Referred 
 
«L2:Hospital Care – Payable on day of admission»  
 
 
 
 
 
Hospital care is billable by the physician responsible for inpatient care of patients admitted 
to hospital. Hospital care includes all of the routine services required to manage in hospital 
care. Additional services provided as a result of an acute episode may be payable with an 
explanation. 
 
 
 
 
 
Post-operative hospital care is included in the surgical fee and can only be paid if hospital 
care is provided by another physician for a condition unrelated to the surgery. Upon 
transfer of hospital care to another physician, billing of hospital care should be as if there 
was a continuation of care under the same physician. An assessment or consultation may 
not be billed when hospital care is transferred to another physician. 
 
 
 
 
 
Hospital care may be billed for short term acute care patients who are admitted to a health 
centre in the same manner as an acute care hospital. Physicians may not use hospital care 
to cover in-hospital patients who are designated as long-term care. These patients are to 
be billed under codes 627A-629A – Special Care Home Management. 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:25T» -- 1-10 days 
-- per day -- bill units (max 10) 
$53.00 
$53.00 
«CODE:26T» -- 11-20 days 
-- per day -- bill units (max 10) 
$53.00 
$53.00 
«CODE:27T» -- 21-30 days 
-- per day -- bill units (max 10) 
$50.00 
$50.00 
«CODE:28T» -- 31 days and thereafter 
-- per day -- bill units (max 99) 
$50.00 
$50.00 

--- Page 319 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 319
 
 
S E C T I O N  T – Otolaryngology   
Specialist in 
Otolaryngology 
 
 
Referred 
Not  
Referred 
 
 
 
 
 
«L2:Virtual Care Services»  
 
 
 
Please see Virtual Care preamble in the introductory section of the Payment Schedule for 
more information. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:807T» Virtual follow-up assessment provided via telephone or secure videoconference-- 
includes: 
$50.30 
$47.20 
 
a) history review; 
 
 
 
 
b) functional enquiry; 
 
 
 
 
c) diagnosis, tentative or final;  
 
 
 
 
d) necessary treatment;  
 
 
 
 
e) advice to the patient; and  
 
 
 
 
f) record of service provided.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:809T» Virtual consultation provided via telephone or secure videoconference-- includes: 
$84.00 
 
 
a) all visits necessary;  
 
 
 
b) history; 
 
 
 
c) review of laboratory and/or other data; 
 
 
 
d) written submission of the consultant's opinion; and 
 
 
 
e) recommendations to the referring doctor. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
«CODE:811T» Repeat virtual consultation provided via telephone or secure videoconference: 
$53.10 
 
 
A formal virtual consultation for the same or related condition repeated within 90 days 
by the same physician. Repeat virtual consultation is only to be billed when it is 
generated by a new formal request by the referring physician. It should not be used for 
routine virtual follow-up of the patient for which service code '807T" "Virtual follow-up 
assessment" is appropriate. 
 
 

--- Page 320 ---
Payment Schedule for Insured Services Provided by a Physician 
 
April 1, 2024 
 
 
Page 320
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BLANK PAGE INTENTIONAL

«L1:SECTION T – Otolaryngology»

«L2:Procedures»

Additional payments for diagnostic service excluding ECGs, 0, 10 or 42-day operative procedures performed on patients under one (1) year of age are automatically calculated and paid as explained in Section A.

«CODE:430T» Screening audiogram -- not to be billed for Welch Allyn type audioscope $16.00 $16.00 D

«CODE:431T» Diagnostic pure tone audiogram in sound-proof room including thresholds and four frequencies   -- air $25.00 $25.00 D

«CODE:432T» Diagnostic pure tone audiogram in sound-proof room including thresholds and four frequencies -- air and bone $25.00 $25.00 D

«CODE:433T» Speech reception threshold $2.00 $2.00 D

«CODE:434T» Discrimination score $4.00 $4.00 D

«CODE:435T» One or more of -- most comfortable level, speech detection threshold, Stenger test, ABLB or tone decay, total $4.00 $4.00 D

«CODE:537T» Impedance hearing testing (e.g. impedance tympanometry and/or acoustic reflexes) $1.05 $1.05 D

«CODE:438T» Reflex decay $4.00 $4.00 D

«CODE:439T» Conditioned play audiometry $15.00 $15.00 D

«CODE:440T» VRA requiring two testers $15.00 $15.00 D

«CODE:441T» TROCA requiring two testers $22.90 $22.90 D

«CODE:442T» Vestibular caloric test $5.80 $5.80 D

Electronystagmography including gaze, positional and caloric testing

«CODE:443T» Electronystagmography -- test and interpretation $60.00 $60.00 D

«CODE:444T» Electronystagmography -- interpretation only $15.30 $15.30 D

«CODE:445T» Canalolith repositioning maneuver for benign paroxysmal positional vertigo $10.20 $9.20 D

«L3:Ear»

«CODE:51T» Catheter inflation $12.20 $12.20 0

«CODE:52T» Cerumen -- removal includes syringing -- simple (bilateral) -- not payable with a consultation $37.00 $37.00 0

«CODE:53T» Cerumen -- removal includes syringing -- impacted -- under injected local or general Anesthesia $50.00 $50.00 10 L

«CODE:350T» Removal of cerumen under magnification (e.g. Hotchkiss otoscope or binocular microscope) -- bilateral $14.00 $14.00 0

«CODE:54T» Ear - foreign body – removal, simple $21.40 $21.40 0 L

«CODE:55T» Ear - foreign body – removal, complicated, under injected local or general anesthesia $77.50 $77.50 10 L

«CODE:56T» Ear - foreign body – removal, involving post-aural incision $254.90 $229.40 42 L

«CODE:57T» Paracentesis of eardrum $51.00 $51.00 0 L

«CODE:58T» Ear - polyp – removal, simple $25.50 $25.50 10 L

«CODE:59T» Ear - polyp -- removal under local or general anesthesia $50.00 $50.00 10 L

«CODE:61T» Labyrinthotomy $611.70 $550.50 42 L

«CODE:62T» Endolymphatic sac surgery -- initial or revision $699.40 $699.40 42 L

«CODE:70T» Mastoidectomy -- infant -- antrotomy $650.00 $585.00 42 L

«CODE:71T» Mastoidectomy -- simple -- complete any age $650.00 $585.00 42 L

«CODE:72T» Mastoidectomy -- radical -- classical – revision $800.00 $719.95 42 L

«CODE:74T» Mastoidectomy -- revision -- same surgeon $800.00 $719.95 42 L

«CODE:75T» Mastoidectomy -- revision -- different surgeon $750.00 $674.95 42 L

«CODE:76T» Mastoidectomy -- revision - with musculoplasty, add to 72T, 74T, 75T, 87T $72.00 $64.70 42 L

«CODE:77T» Review of radical mastoid cavity -- removal of cerumen and debris – unilateral $40.00 $40.00 0 L

«CODE:78T» Post-aural fistula -- closing $100.00 $90.00 42 L

«CODE:79T» Post-aural fistula -- with sliding or pedicle graft $100.00 $90.00 42 L

«CODE:80T» Post-aural fistula -- stapedectomy with prosthesis (fenestration of the oval window) $764.60 $688.20 42 L

«CODE:81T» Stapes mobilization  $352.00 $316.80 42 L

«CODE:82T» Sinus thrombosis -- operative management with mastoidectomy $309.60 $278.65 42 L

«CODE:83T» Tympanotomy, exploratory (internal) (not paid in addition to inner ear surgery) $152.90 $137.60 42 L

«CODE:283T» Tympanotomy with ossicular chain reconstruction $407.80 $367.00 42 L

«CODE:84T» Myringoplasty -- per canal approach only $175.00 $158.05 42 L

«CODE:85T» Tympanoplasty -- with widening of external auditory canal and exploration of attic with or without antrotomy $450.00 $405.00 42 L

«CODE:86T» Tympanoplasty -- with ossicular reconstruction $700.00 $629.95 42 L

«CODE:87T» Tympanoplasty -- with radical mastoidectomy $917.60 $825.80 42 L

«CODE:88T» Myringotomy with insertion of tube (total care) $96.50 $86.85 42 L

«CODE:89T» Cochlear implant, unilateral, with or without mastoidectomy, includes posterior tympanotomy, free tissue harvest for cochleostomy obliteration and musculopiosteal temporalis muscle rotation flap $1,400.00 $1,260.00 42 H

«CODE:100T» Percutaneous insertion of bone-anchored hearing aid, unilateral (all-inclusive code) $410.00 $369.00 10 L

«CODE:250T» Facial nerve monitoring – add to 61T, 62T, 70T, 71T, 72T, 74T, 75T, 76T, 81T, 82T, 85T, 87T, 89T, and 283T (Not payable in multiples; one per patient contact to the physician performing the monitoring) $137.05 $137.05 42

«L3:Nose»

«CODE:90T» Antrum -- puncture and/or irrigation, unilateral, diagnostic or therapeutic $25.50 $25.50 0 L

«CODE:92T» Anterior packing for epistaxis -- unilateral or bilateral $35.00 $35.00 0 L

«CODE:93T» Post-nasal packing -- unilateral or bilateral $100.00 $100.00 0 L

«CODE:292T» Post-nasal packing -- removal -- bilateral $25.50 $25.50 0 L

«CODE:393T» Epistaxis, for anterior packing and post nasal packing -- unilateral or bilateral $203.90 $203.90 0 L

«CODE:94T» Nose - foreign body removal -- simple $32.00 $32.00 0 L

«CODE:95T» Nose - foreign body removal -- complicated -- general anesthetic $102.00 $102.00 10 L

«CODE:96T» Nose - polyp removal -- single -- in office $60.00 $60.00 10 L

«CODE:296T» Nose - polyp removal -- single -- in operating room $103.00 $103.00 10 L

«CODE:97T» Nose - polyp removal -- multiple -- unilateral -- in operating room $85.00 $76.45 10 L

«CODE:98T» Nose - polyp removal -- choanal $83.60 $75.20 10 L

«CODE:99T» Nose - polyp removal -- electrocoagulation - per treatment -- unilateral or bilateral -- maximum 4 treatments $13.70 $12.30 0 L

«CODE:105T» Choanal atresia -- emergency treatment in newborn, transnasal procedure and insertion of tube $52.30 $47.10 0 L

«CODE:106T» Choanal atresia -- repair -- anterior nasal approach -- unilateral $352.00 $316.80 42 M

«CODE:107T» Choanal atresia -- repair -- transpalatal approach $509.80 $458.80 42 M

«CODE:108T» Choanal atresia -- choanal dilation $23.00 $23.00 0 L

«CODE:109T» Cauterization of nose -- general anesthetic $102.00 $102.00 0 L

«CODE:110T» Septum cauterization -- chemical -- unilateral or bilateral $28.70 $28.70 0 L

«CODE:111T» Septum cauterization -- electro-cautery or diathermy -- unilateral or bilateral  $102.00 $102.00 0 L

«CODE:112T» Submucous resection $305.00 $274.50 42 L

«CODE:113T» Septoplasty -- utilizing transfixion incision with mobilization of cartilaginous septum $305.00 $274.50 42 M

«CODE:114T» Septal dermoplasty -- septum only $305.00 $274.50 42 L

«CODE:115T» Septal dermoplasty -- septum, floor and lateral wall $305.00 $274.50 42 L

Sinus -- unilateral operation

«CODE:116T» Sinus -- maxillary antrum -- radical (Caldwell-Luc, etc) $458.80 $412.90 42 M

«CODE:117T» Sinus -- maxillary antrum -- radical with closure of oral fistula $450.00 $405.00 42 M

«CODE:118T» Sinus -- maxillary antrum – intranasal $120.00 $108.00 42 M

«CODE:119T» Sinus -- ethmoidectomy -- external $615.65 $554.05 42 M

«CODE:520T» Sinus -- ethmoidectomy -- intranasal -- anterior or complete $180.00 $162.00 42 L

«CODE:122T» Sinus -- frontal -- external – trephine $305.90 $275.30 42 M

«CODE:123T» Sinus -- frontal – obliteration.  osteoplastic flap with fat or similar graft $750.00 $674.95 42 M

«CODE:124T» Sinus -- frontal -- obliteration -- removal of anterior wall and floor $305.90 $275.30 42 M

«CODE:125T» Sinus -- frontal -- including either ethmoid and/or sphenoid $380.00 $342.00 42 M

«CODE:126T» Sinus -- frontal -- intranasal $190.00 $171.05 42 M

«CODE:127T» Sinus -- sphenoid -- intranasal $180.00 $162.05 42 M

Transphenoidal exposure of pituitary for hypophysectomy see Section K

«CODE:128T» Transantral orbital decompression -- unilateral $509.80 $509.80 42 M

«CODE:129T» Transantral orbital decompression -- bilateral $407.80 $407.80 42 M

«CODE:130T» Turbinate -- cauterization -- cautery or diathermy --  unilateral or bilateral $61.20 $61.20 0 L

«CODE:131T» Turbinate -- resection – partial $75.00 $67.50  10 M

«CODE:132T» Turbinate -- submucous resection of $75.00 $67.45 10 M

«CODE:450T» Turbinate -- sinuscopy -- unilateral or bilateral $29.00 $26.10 D L

«L3:Throat and Mouth»

«CODE:138T» Frenectomy -- without anesthesia $45.05 $45.05 10 L

«CODE:139T» Frenectomy -- under general anesthesia $102.00 $102.00 10 M

«CODE:140T» Abscess - incision and drainage with scalpel -- peritonsillar or retropharyngeal $300.00 $300.00 10 M

«CODE:142T» Adenoidectomy $300.00 $270.00 42 M

«CODE:145T» Tonsillectomy with or without adenoidectomy $438.00 $438.00 42 M

«CODE:147T» Post T & A hemorrhage -- surgical treatment $500.00 $500.00 42 M

«CODE:165T» Endoscopic -- removal of foreign body from larynx $305.90 $275.30 42 M

«CODE:173T» Laryngoscopy -- direct - diagnostic $40.00 $40.00 D L

«CODE:174T» Laryngoscopy -- direct - with biopsy $215.00 $193.50 D M

«CODE:175T» Laryngoscopy -- direct - with benign tumor removal or cord stripping $203.90 $183.50 42 M

«CODE:275T» Laryngoscopy -- with microscope -- with biopsy or cord stripping $300.00 $270.00 42 L

«CODE:171T» Intubation -- for laryngeal obstruction $305.90 $305.90 0 M

«CODE:176T» Hypopharyngeal -- removal of foreign body $102.00 $102.00 0 M

«CODE:177T» Tracheostomy $500.00 $450.00 42 M

«CODE:178T» Complete change of tracheostomy tube or Blom Singer prosthesis $125.10 $125.10 0 L

«L3:Miscellaneous»

«CODE:192T» Arytenoidopexy or arytenoidectomy $450.00 $405.00 42 M

«CODE:193T» Total laryngectomy $1,300.00 $1,170.05 42 H

«CODE:293T» Primary creation/insertion of voice prosthesis $200.00 $180.00 42 H

«CODE:194T» Partial laryngectomy -- not laryngofissure $713.70 $642.30 42 H

«CODE:195T» Laryngofissure $815.60 $734.00 42 M

«CODE:196T» Anterior or lateral pharyngotomy $500.00 $450.00 42 M

«CODE:197T» Total maxillectomy with or without orbital exenteration $1,000.00 $900.00 42 M

«CODE:198T» Transoral cricopharyngeal myotomy $611.70 $550.50 42 M

«CODE:199T» Transoral cricopharyngeal myotomy with another procedure, add $102.00 $91.80 42 M

«CODE:200T» Tympanic neurectomy -- unilateral $179.40 $161.10 42 M

«CODE:201T» Tympanic neurectomy -- bilateral $330.30 $297.70 42 M

«CODE:300T» Laryngoscope or nasal sinuscope tray fee  

1. For cleaning and maintaining endoscopic instruments.   $19.70 $19.70 

2. Paid in addition to the following office procedures only:   173T, 174T, 175T, 450T

«L1:SECTION V – Laboratory Medicine»

«L2:Laboratory Services»

Laboratory services in lists 1, 2, and 3, provided outside of a hospital or any other facility in which laboratory costs are funded by the Ministry of Health are insured as defined in the lists:  

Physician Payment Approved For

Pathologist List 1, 2, 3

Physician with a registered Laboratory Technician List 1, 2

Other Physicians   List 1

"Pathologist" -- means a specialist whose name appears on the list of specialists maintained by the College of Physicians and Surgeons of the Province of Saskatchewan as being a pathologist.

«L2:LIST 1»

Classification: Diagnostic

The following services are insured when provided by a physician or a person employed by the physician in a medical laboratory which holds a Category I licence issued pursuant to The Medical Laboratory Licensing Act:

«CODE:14V» Hemoglobin (Hgb) $6.00

«CODE:15V» Hematocrit or packed cell volume (PCV) $4.85

«CODE:31V» Blood sugar -- diagnostic stick -- whole blood $5.40

«CODE:32V» Blood sugar -- serum -- machine read (when done on an Ames seralyzer or a similar machine) $6.40

«CODE:59V» Urinalysis -- dipstick $5.35

«CODE:60V» Urinalysis -- complete -- dipstick and microscopic $6.30

«CODE:62V» Test for pregnancy -- any method $12.10

«CODE:70V» Examination of slide for trichomas, yeast, scales - lab licence not required to perform this service $6.40

«CODE:80V» Occult blood $4.70

«CODE:90V» Microalbumin testing -- max one per year per patient (for diabetic patients with negative albumin only) urine dipstick $8.60

Note: Tests performed on the Ames Glucometer or similar equipment providing blood sugar readings on whole blood should be billed as service code 31V Blood sugar -- diagnostic stick, not as 32V.

«L2:LIST 2»

Classification: Diagnostic

The following services are insured when provided by a physician or by a registered laboratory technologist or a certified combined laboratory and x-ray technician in a medical laboratory which holds a Category II licence issued pursuant to The Medical Laboratory Licensing Act.

A Category II laboratory must employ a registered laboratory technologist or certified combined laboratory and x-ray technician.

«CODE:12V» Blood Profile (includes hemoglobin (Hgb), WBC, smear and differential) (not to be used when any portion of the result is obtained by the use of automated or semi-automated analyzers) $10.40

«CODE:14V» Hemoglobin (Hgb) $6.00

«CODE:15V» Hematocrit (HCT) or packed cell volume (PCV) $4.85

«CODE:17V» Erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) $3.60

«CODE:18V» Smear with differential count $5.00

«CODE:19V» White blood cell count (WBC) $3.10

«CODE:904V» Automated or semi-automated hematology profile, counts and indices (includes Hgb, RBC, WBC, HCT, MCH, MCHC, and MCV, when performed) $10.90

«CODE:27V» Blood urea nitrogen -- serum -- machine read (when done on an Ames seralyzer or a similar hi) $3.20

«CODE:29V» Blood urea nitrogen -- diagnostic stick -- whole blood $2.10

«CODE:31V» Blood sugar -- diagnostic stick -- whole blood $5.40

«CODE:32V» Blood sugar serum -- machine read (when done on an Ames seralyzer or a similar machine) $6.40

«CODE:33V» Blood glucose test or glucose tolerance test (including urine test), per unit $6.60

«CODE:59V» Urinalysis -- dipstick $5.35

«CODE:60V» Urinalysis -- complete -- dipstick and microscopic $6.30

«CODE:62V» Test for pregnancy -- any method $12.10

«CODE:70V» Examination of slide for trichomonas, yeast, scales -- lab licence not required to perform this service $6.40

«CODE:80V» Occult blood $4.70

«CODE:512V» Prothrombin -- Quick's one stage prothrombin time with control $5.70

«CODE:627V» Spot test for mononucleosis $8.50

«CODE:90V» Microalbumin testing --max one per year per patient (for diabetic patients with negative albumin only) urine dipstick $8.60

Note:  Tests performed on the Ames Glucometer or similar equipment providing blood sugar readings on whole blood should be billed as service code 31V Blood sugar -- diagnostic stick, not as 32V 

«L2:LIST 3»

Classification: Diagnostic

1. The following services are insured when provided in: A medical laboratory which holds a Category III or Category IV licence issued pursuant to The Medical Laboratory Licensing Act.  

a) A Category III laboratory is a laboratory outside of a hospital which is supervised by a pathologist.  

b) A category IV laboratory is a satellite laboratory affiliated with a Category III laboratory whose manager is responsible for the satellite laboratory 

2. Payment includes both the technical and professional components unless otherwise specified. 

3. Supervision by a pathologist means that they shall:  
a) live in the town or city where the laboratory is located; 
b) personally visit the laboratory at least three times a week; 
c) supervise the recruitment and work of the laboratory personnel and the purchasing of equipment and supplies;  
d) be available at all times for consultation;  
e) accept responsibility for the procedures used in the work of the laboratory; and,  
f) if the specialist is hospital-based, then their supervision of a non-hospital laboratory should be restricted to one such laboratory. 

4. The listed payment for a service applies to the provision of the service by any method unless otherwise specified in the description of the service. 

«CODE:65A» Pathologist Assessment includes: $28.10

a) all visits necessary; 
b) history and examination; 
c) review of laboratory and/or other data,  
d) written submission of the consultant's opinion and recommendations to the referring  doctor; and, 
e) advice to the patient as required. 

Only payable to physician providing a surgical biopsy (standard assessment rules apply). 

Specimen Collection and Referral

«CODE:751V» Phlebotomy, venipuncture $24.20

«CODE:752V» Phlebotomy, pediatric (0 to 6 years) $36.40

«CODE:771V» Referral  -- blood $12.30

«CODE:770V» Referral  -- urine $12.30

«CODE:772V» Referral  -- other $15.70

«CODE:756V» Referral  -- transfer of dangerous goods (TDG) - blood $38.20

«CODE:757V» Referral  -- transfer of dangerous goods (TDG) - urine  $38.20

«CODE:758V» Referral  -- transfer of dangerous goods (TDG) - other  $38.20

«L3:Chemistry»

Blood Gases

«CODE:111V» Blood gases (pH, p02,pC02, 02 saturation) $8.50

«CODE:112V» Blood gas (pH only) $6.00

«CODE:113V» Blood gas and metabolites - pH, p02, pC02, 02 saturation, sodium, potassium, chloride, glucose, lactate $12.40

«CODE:114V» Blood gas and metabolites - pH, p02,pC02, 02 saturation, sodium, potassium, chloride, glucose, lactate and ionized calcium $13.40

«CODE:118V» CoOximetry (any single test) $6.00

«CODE:119V» CoOximetry (methemoglobin, carboxyhemoglobin, oxyhemoglobin)  $7.60

«CODE:120V» Blood gas, metabolites and CoOximetry (pH, p02, pC02, 02 saturation, sodium, potassium, chloride, glucose, lactate, ionized calcium, methemoglobin, carboxyhemoglobin, oxyhemoglobin, hemoglobin-arterial) $16.50

«CODE:121V» Ionized calcium - whole blood $6.00

«CODE:122V» Ionized calcium - serum $6.00

Routine  

«CODE:130V» Specimen may be serum/plasma/urine/fluids -- single analyte $6.00

«CODE:131V» For each additional analyte performed on the same specimen from the following menu add: $0.80

Acetaminophen  
Albumin 
Alanine Aminotransferase (ALT) 
Alkaline phosphatase (ALP) 
Ammonia  
Amylase 
Aspartate Aminotransferase (AST) 
Bicarbonate (TCo2) 
Calcium 
Chloride 
Cholesterol 
Creatinine 
Creatinine Kinase (CK) 
Creatinine Kinase-MB (CKMB) 
Direct bilirubin 
Ethanol 
Gamma-glutamyl    transpeptidase (GGT) 
Glucose 
HDL cholesterol 
Iron + total iron binding capacity (TIBC) 
Lactate Dehydrogenase (LDH) 
Magnesium 
Potassium 
Phosphate 
Salicylate 
Sodium 
Total bilirubin  
Total protein  
Triglyceride 
Urea 
Uric acid 

Urinalysis/Urine Testing

«CODE:132V» Routine urinalysis includes -- bilirubin, glucose, hemoglobin, ketones, leukocytes, nitrates, pH, protein, specific gravity & urobilinogen $7.10

«CODE:133V» Urine microscopy $6.00

«CODE:134V» Myoglobin urine $22.50

«CODE:135V» Occult blood (stool/gastric) $6.00

«CODE:136V» Osmolality urine/serum $20.50

«CODE:137V» Ketones, reducing substances (urine/feces) $2.00

«CODE:138V» 24-hour urine, creatinine clearance $17.00

«CODE:139V» 24-hour urine, total protein $16.20

Urinalysis/Urine Testing

«CODE:141V» Albumin/creatinine ratio $40.10

«CODE:433V» Microalbumin - by automated method $16.60

«CODE:140V» Pregnancy test – human chorionic gonadotropin (HCG) - urine or serum $23.40

Chemistry - Immunology/Rheumatology

«CODE:151V» Alpha 1 antitrypsin $16.60

«CODE:152V» C3 $16.60

«CODE:153V» C4 $16.60

«CODE:162V» Ceruloplasmin $16.60

«CODE:155V» C-reactive protein (CRP) $16.60

«CODE:240V» Electrophoresis (serum) $40.10

«CODE:156V» Electrophoresis creatine kinase (CK) $40.10

«CODE:157V» Electrophoresis cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)/urine $50.30

«CODE:158V» Immunoglobulin A (IgA) $16.60

«CODE:159V» Immunoglobulin G (IgG) $16.60

«CODE:161V» Immunoglobulin M (IgM) $16.60

«CODE:163V» Immunofixation (serum/CSF/urine) $97.40

«CODE:630V» Rheumatoid factor (RF) $16.60

«CODE:166V» Transferrin $16.60

«CODE:167V» Cryoglobulins $25.00

Chemistry - Endocrinology and Therapeutic Drug Monitoring

«CODE:171V» For any single analyte ordered on the same specimen from the following group $11.10

«CODE:172V» For each additional analyte ordered from the following group add:  $3.60

- Alpha fetoprotein (AFP) 
- Carbamazepine 
- Carcinoembryonic Antigen  (CEA) 
- Digoxin 
- Ferritin 
- Follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) 
- Gentamicin 
- Luteinizing hormone (LH) 
- Phenobarbital 
- Phenytoin 
- Prolactin 
- Serum beta HCG, quantitative 
- Theophylline 
- Tobramycin 
- Troponin 1 
- Valproic acid 
- Vancomycin 

«CODE:173V» Estradiol $30.50

«CODE:174V» Free T3 $8.30

«CODE:175V» FreeT4 $8.30

«CODE:270V» Thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) $8.30

«CODE:271V» Thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) - (free T4 reflexed) $11.20

«CODE:181V» Thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) - (free T4 & free T3 reflexed) $14.30

«CODE:182V» Amikacin $13.90

«CODE:183V» Cortisol $13.90

«CODE:185V» Cyclosporine $19.40

«CODE:186V» Methotrexate $13.90

«CODE:187V» Prostate specific antigen (PSA) $11.10

«CODE:188V» Secobarbital, phenytoin, amobarbital, butalbarbital, pentobarbital, phenobarbital (urine/serum) (when done as a panel of six) $54.40

«CODE:189V» Tacrolimus $22.10

«CODE:190V» Thiopental $41.50

«CODE:203V» Toxicology screen (serum or urine) $96.10

Chemistry - Miscellaneous

«CODE:204V» B2 microglobulin $13.90

«CODE:205V» Bilirubin amniotic - B12/RBC folate - see hematology section $38.20

«CODE:302V» Calculus analysis $30.50

«CODE:142V» Carotene $69.40

«CODE:206V» Chylomicrons (refridge & visual) $22.10

«CODE:207V» Chymex $41.50

«CODE:208V» Cryofibrinogen $41.50

«CODE:168V» Cryoglobulin $25.00

«CODE:209V» Ethanol, isopropanol, methanol (when done as a panel of 3) $44.30

«CODE:210V» Ethylene glycol $44.30

«CODE:211V» Fat globule (prep,stain,interp) $55.50

«CODE:412V» Fecal fat assay $152.40

«CODE:212V» Free erythrocyte protoporphyrin (FEP) assay $52.60

«CODE:213V» Gastric analysis $16.50

«CODE:214V» Glucose by glucose meter $7.10

«CODE:215V» Haptoglobin $16.60

«CODE:216V» Hemoglobin A1C - iron/iron binding/% saturation - see Hematology Section $12.00

«CODE:249V» Lithium $11.20

«CODE:217V» Lecithin-sphingomyelin (LS)/phophatidylglycerol (PG) on amniotic fluid $138.30

«CODE:338V» Melanin $27.60

«CODE:202V» Methemalbumin $58.00

«CODE:425V» Mucin $13.90

«CODE:218V» pH - pH meter (fluid) $6.00

«CODE:219V» Phenylalanine $41.50

«CODE:221V» Plasma hemoglobin $41.50

«CODE:349V» Porphobilinogen screen $25.00

«CODE:222V» Porphyrin screen (feces/urine/serum) $27.60

«CODE:224V» Prealbumin $16.60

«CODE:225V» Pregnancy test - human chorionic gonadotropin (HCG) - serum $23.40

«CODE:227V» Sweat chloride analysis (does not include specimen collection) $16.50

«CODE:418V» Trypsin $30.50

«CODE:229V» Xylose $22.10

Chemistry – Allergy

«CODE:235V» Immunoglobulin E (IgE) $69.70

«CODE:236V» Food mix screen $69.70

«CODE:237V» Inhalant screen IgE $69.70

«CODE:238V» For each additional specific allergen ordered with total Immunoglobulin E (IgE) or a screen, add $9.70

«CODE:239V» For each allergen, if ordered individually - some common allergens are: dog dander, dust, milk, yellow hornet, honey bee, peanut $69.70

«L3:Hematology - Routine»

«CODE:422V» CBC 8 parameters + histograms, 3 or 5 part differential $12.70

«CODE:423V» CBC 8 parameters or less (hemoglobin, HCT, RBC, WCB, MCV, MCH, MCHC + platelets) $7.60

«L1:S E C T I O N  V – Laboratory Medicine»

Specialist in Pathology

«L2:Miscellaneous»

«CODE:251V» B12    $11.10
«CODE:253V» Cell count and differential cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)    $53.70
«CODE:434V» Erythrocyte sedimentation rate    $10.20
«CODE:464V» Estimate - platelet/white blood cell (WBC) count    $7.60
«CODE:254V» Red blood cell (RBC) folate    $27.60
«CODE:180V» Iron, total iron binding capacity (TIBC) and % saturation    $12.90
«CODE:255V» Manual differential    $28.10
«CODE:257V» Manual hemoglobin (Hgb)    $28.10
«CODE:476V» Manual white blood cell (WBC) count    $15.90
«CODE:259V» Monotest    $15.90
«CODE:260V» Morphology    $7.60
«CODE:470V» Reticulocyte count    $23.10
«CODE:494V» Blood parasites (malarial & others)    $56.30
«CODE:261V» Bone marrow - assist, stain, differential, iron    $235.70
«CODE:262V» Bone marrow - for each additional 500 cells counted, add    $50.80
«CODE:263V» Bone marrow - for each additional slide stained    $50.80
«CODE:265V» Buffy coat preparation    $40.90
«CODE:481V» Cell count and differential    $46.10
«CODE:266V» Cytospin    $17.90
«CODE:267V» Eosinophil smear (sputum)    $20.50
«CODE:268V» Eosinophil smear (urines)    $38.30
«CODE:550V» Esterase, iron, peroxidase, sudan black, TRAP    $51.30
«CODE:274V» Fluid crystals    $15.90
«CODE:497V» Heinz bodies (direct)    $38.30
«CODE:346V» Hemoglobin (HGB) pigments (qualitative)    $30.10
«CODE:275V» Hemolysate preparation    $43.60
«CODE:276V» Iron stain hematology    $12.70
«CODE:277V» Leukocyte alkaline phosphatase score    $92.70
«CODE:278V» Hemosiderin – urine    $15.90

«L2:Hematology - Coagulation»

«CODE:279V» Prothrombin time (PT)/INR & Activated Partial Thromboplastin Time (APTT) $11.50
«CODE:280V» Prothrombin time (PT)/INR    $10.20
«CODE:281V» Activated Partial Thromboplastin Time (APTT)    $10.20
«CODE:282V» D-dimer – automated    $93.80
«CODE:283V» Factor assays (each)    $67.20
«CODE:506V» Fibrinogen    $10.20

«L2:Hematology - Flow Cytometry»

«CODE:284V» CD4/CD8    $374.10
«CODE:285V» CD34-peripheral blood    $275.60
«CODE:287V» CD34-apheresis    $367.00

«L2:Transfusion Medicine»

«CODE:560V» ABO & RH typing (group & type)    $43.70
«CODE:563V» Antibody screen    $39.40
«CODE:289V» Antibody panel    $65.60
«CODE:290V» Antibody panel --  each additional panel    $65.60
«CODE:291V» Antigen typing    $39.40
«CODE:600V» Direct antiglobulin test (Coombs & fractionation)    $48.10
«CODE:559V» Crossmatch (group & type, antibody screen & 2 units of packed cells) $96.10
«CODE:293V» Crossmatch (group & type, antibody screen & 2 units of packed cells)-  each additional unit of packed cells $17.40
«CODE:295V» Human leukocyte antigen (HLA) typing (ABC/DR typing)    $1,219.30

«L2:Microbiology – Routine»

«CODE:297V» Blood culture and sensitivity (C&S) for bacteria &/or yeast - automated    $44.60
«CODE:690V» Blood culture and sensitivity (C&S) for bacteria &/or yeast - manual    $79.80
«CODE:299V» Cervix culture and sensitivity (C&S)    $44.30
«CODE:300V» Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) culture and sensitivity (C&S)    $68.10
«CODE:301V» Dermatophyte culture    $156.00
«CODE:305V» Direct gram stain only    $33.80
«CODE:306V» Effluent culture    $59.80
«CODE:307V» Environmental culture    $33.40
«CODE:309V» Fluids culture and sensitivity (C&S)    $86.70
«CODE:311V» Fungal culture and sensitivity (C&S)    $156.00
«CODE:312V» Lower Respiratory CBS with gram stain    $61.50
«CODE:724V» Microscopic exam for Fungus    $23.40
«CODE:313V» Miscellaneous culture and sensitivity (C&S)    $93.80
«CODE:314V» Methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) culture    $54.00
«CODE:731V» Parasite examination - pinworm paddle    $23.40
«CODE:725V» Parasite examination - skin scrapings    $47.00
«CODE:317V» Parasite examination -- stool - full ova and parasites (O&P) workup    $102.10
«CODE:318V» Parasite examination -- stool - giardia/cryptosporidium screen    $23.40
«CODE:319V» Parasite examination -- trichomonas    $23.40
«CODE:729V» Parasite examination -- urine    $49.50
«CODE:321V» Pneurnocystis examination    $123.20
«CODE:322V» Stool for culture and sensitivity (C&S)    $53.00
«CODE:323V» Stool for Clostridium difficile toxin    $28.60
«CODE:324V» Streptozyme screen    $18.10
«CODE:325V» Throat culture and sensitivity (C&S)    $28.60
«CODE:326V» Ureaplasma urealyticum testing    $32.60
«CODE:327V» Urethra culture and sensitivity (C&S)    $44.30
«CODE:329V» Urine culture and sensitivity (C&S)    $26.10
«CODE:331V» Vaginal or vaginal/rectal swab for group B strep    $34.20
«CODE:333V» Vaginal swab for bacterial vaginosis examination    $33.80
«CODE:334V» Vancomycin resistant enterococcus (VRE) screen    $34.40
«CODE:335V» Wound culture - deep site    $86.70
«CODE:337V» Wound culture - surface site    $70.70

«L2:Microbiology – Tuberculosis (TB)»

«CODE:344V» Bronchial washing tuberculosis (TB) culture    $216.90
«CODE:345V» Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) tuberculosis (TB) culture    $206.30
«CODE:347V» Fluid tuberculosis (TB) culture    $236.80
«CODE:351V» Gastric washing tuberculosis (TB) culture    $166.50
«CODE:352V» Polymerase chain reactin (PCR) for mycobacterium  tuberculosis (TB)    $241.50
«CODE:242V» Polymerase chain reactin (PCR) for mycobacteria species    $241.50
«CODE:722V» Smear only    $96.10
«CODE:354V» Sputum tuberculosis (TB) culture    $236.80
«CODE:355V» Stool tuberculosis (TB) smear    $96.10
«CODE:356V» Miscellaneous tuberculosis (TB) culture    $206.30
«CODE:357V» Tissue tuberculosis (TB) culture    $236.80
«CODE:358V» Urine tuberculosis (TB) culture    $187.60

«L2:Microbiology - Virology»

«CODE:359V» Cytomegalovirus (CMV) antigenemia    $423.30
«CODE:360V» Cytomegalovirus (CMV) IgG    $66.70

Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) serology -- Epstein-Barr virus nuclear antigen (EBNA); Epstein-Barr viral-capsid antigen (VCA) IgM or  IgG  

«CODE:361V»  -- if ordered individually.    $59.30
«CODE:363V»  -- If added to an existing order ---add    $22.30
«CODE:368V»  Epstein-Barr Virus (EBV) early antigen (EA) -- if ordered individually    $147.70
«CODE:369V»  Epstein-Barr Virus (EBV) early antigen (EA) -- If added to an existing order ---add    $111.40

Hepatitis testing  

«CODE:370V» -- single marker    $74.10
«CODE:371V» -- for each additional marker added to order -- add    $37.00

Includes the following list of markers:  

- Hepatitis A Antibody
- Hepatitis A immunoglobulin G (IgG)
- Hepatitis A immunoglobulin M (IgM)
- Hepatitis B Core Antibody
- Hepatitis B Core immunoglobulin M (IgM)
- Hepatitis B Surface Antibody
- Hepatitis B Surface Antigen
- Hepatitis C Antibody

«CODE:373V» Herpes antibody    $66.70
«CODE:374V» Mycoplasma pneumonia antibodies     $66.70
«CODE:375V» Parvovirus serology (B19 - immunoglobulin G (IgG) and immunoglobulin M (lgM))    $163.00
«CODE:376V» Rubella immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibody    $59.30
«CODE:377V» Rubella immunoglobulin M (IgM) antibody    $51.90
«CODE:379V» Toxoplasma immunoglobulin G (IgG)    $51.90
«CODE:383V» Toxoplasma immunoglobulin M (IgM)    $51.90
«CODE:384V» Varicella immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibody    $66.70
«CODE:385V» Chlamydia culture    $141.90
«CODE:386V» Respiratory specimen for viruses by direct fluorescent antibody tests $207.60
«CODE:387V» Rotavirus antigen test    $59.30
«CODE:388V» Viral culture -- cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)    $215.70
«CODE:389V» Viral culture -- eye    $224.00
«CODE:390V» Viral culture -- genital    $145.40
«CODE:391V» Viral culture -- miscellaneous    $335.30
«CODE:392V» Viral culture -- respiratory    $245.10
«CODE:393V» Viral culture -- skin    $262.60
«CODE:394V» Viral culture -- stool    $266.20
«CODE:395V» Viral culture -- tissue    $349.40
«CODE:396V» Viral culture -- urine    $206.30

«L2:Microbiology dimethyl pimelimidate (DMP)»

«CODE:398V» Chlamydia trachomatis polymerase chain reaction (PCR)    $158.30
«CODE:399V» Hepatitis C polymerase chain reaction (PCR)    $348.30
«CODE:400V» Herpes simplex virus polymerase chain reaction (PCR)    $195.80
«CODE:401V» Pertussis polymerase chain reaction (PCR)    $189.90
«CODE:402V» Varicella polymerase chain reaction (PCR)    $124.30

«L2:Cytology – Gynecologic»

«CODE:403V» Cytology – gynecologic specimen -- 1 slide (Papanicolau) (PAP)    $24.90
«CODE:405V» Cytology – gynecologic specimen -- each additional slide (Papanicolau) (PAP)    $8.40

«L2:Cytology – Medical»

«CODE:407V» Fine needle biopsy - CytoSpin handling -- 1 slide $289.60
«CODE:409V» Fluid for cells -- 1 slide $116.10
«CODE:411V» Sputum for cells -- 1 slide $110.20
«CODE:413V» Urine for cells -- 1 slide $116.10
«CODE:415V» Urine for cells -- each additional slide $26.30

«L1:S E C T I O N  W – Diagnostic Ultrasound»

Classification: Diagnostic

Ultrasound is an insured service where:

1. it is provided outside a hospital and it is not provided to a hospital in-patient or a patient in the Emergency Department; and,

2. it is provided by a physician who is listed by the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Saskatchewan as having qualified to receive payments; and,

3. a hard copy of the diagnostic ultrasound examination(s) plus a written signed interpretation or report of that examination is retained by the physician providing the services; and,

4. there is a 4-digit referring doctor number in the referring doctor field on the claim.

5. * For billing of technical components see "Definitions" (19) and "Services Supervised by a Physician".

Multiple Procedures -- are paid at 100% of the listed payment for each procedure.

«L2:Head and Neck»

«CODE:11W» Echoencephalography (midline and ventricular size) $32.40 $27.35 $59.75
«CODE:12W» Thyroid  $36.10 $26.15 $62.25
«CODE:13W» Thyroid -- with 7.5 or 10 mhz transducer $70.65 $32.20 $102.85
«CODE:16W» Biometry for measuring axial length - unilateral  -- second eye not billable if done for comparison purposes $27.80 $20.40 $48.20
«CODE:17W» Ophthalmic ultrasound for diagnostic examination of the posterior segment - unilateral -- second eye not billable if done for comparison purposes $26.50 $18.90 $45.40
«CODE:72W» Parotid glands or similar $45.15 $34.05 $79.20

«L2:Chest»

«CODE:20W» Echocardiography, M-mode $49.75 $39.25 $89.00
«CODE:21W» Ultrasonically-guided pericardiocentesis or thoracocentesis, bill units $47.10 $38.50 $85.60
«CODE:22W» Chest -- for pleural effusion $42.85 $16.00 $58.85
«CODE:23W» Breast --  for breast mass (per breast) -- bill units $50.00 $48.40 $98.40

«L2:Abdomen»

«CODE:30W» Kidneys, liver, pancreas, gall bladder, spleen, aorta and related structures $98.25 $62.55 $160.80
«CODE:31W» Renal  -- independent study only $58.60 $45.35 $103.95
«CODE:32W» Ultrasonically guided biopsy or cyst aspiration $43.00 $33.35 $76.35
«CODE:73W» Hypertrophic pyloric stenosis $60.00 $38.25 $98.25

«L2:Obstetrics»

Documentation:  Complete and limited obstetric scans require archived image documentation of all of the included below definition findings to support the diagnostic interpretation.

Only 'dynamic' findings are beyond the scope of such image archiving, and these are usually part of biophysical p rofiles, though fetal heart M-modes must be archived.

Point-of-Care ultrasounds are not billable as complete or limited ultrasounds.  See "Definitions" section.

* For billing of technical components see "Definitions" (19) and "Services Supervised by a Physician".

«L3:First Trimester (0 to 13 weeks)»

First trimester complete ultrasound must include image documentation of:
• Fetal heart rate (m-mode where at all possible);  
• Biometry with estimated gestational age;
• Sagittal and transverse embryo/fetus images (if visible yet);
• Yolk sac (if seen); and
• Sagittal and transverse gestational sac images plus other planes as required to document the sac fully, especially in regard to peri-gestational collections or other abnormalities (e.g. fibroids), cul-de-sac especially for fluid and maternal ovaries/adnexal areas.
• Including an interpretation and comprehensive report.

NOTES:

The following services are not payable in the first trimester of pregnancy:
• 50W (Doppler flow study);  
• 20W (echocardiography M-mode); and
• Limited obstetrical ultrasounds.

«CODE:401W» First trimester - Complete  $98.45 $53.80 $152.25

«L3:Second Trimester (14 to 26 weeks)»

Second trimester complete ultrasound must include image documentation of:
• Presentation, lie, placentation, fluid, fetal heart rate, cervix, fetal anatomy (see SOGC/CAr standards for specifics), biometry, EFW, +/- maternal findings.  
• Including an interpretation and comprehensive report.

«CODE:402W» Second trimester - Complete –  singleton  $98.45 $53.80 $152.25
«CODE:412W» Second trimester - Complete – twins - not to be billed before 16 weeks $121.20 $68.00 $189.20
«CODE:422W» Second trimester - Complete – triplets or greater - not to be billed before 16 weeks. $143.45 $88.65 $232.10

Second and third trimester limited ultrasounds are:
• For problem solving, such as rechecking a low placenta, high/low AFV, LGA/SGA, rechecking anatomy previously obscured or questionably abnormal.  
• To answer a specific question such as in the following situations: to assess fetal life, assess fetal well-being, fetal presentation, estimate amniotic fluid, follow up fetal growth, evaluate the cervix or to assess a specific area or areas that could not be adequately imaged on prior examination due to fetal or maternal causes. In most cases, a limited examination is appropriate only when a prior complete examination has been done.
• Typically, such scans should include all 'full' 2nd trimester scan findings except not repeating a full anatomy scan.
• Including an interpretation and comprehensive report

«CODE:432W» Second trimester - Limited –  singleton, twins or triplets or greater $50.35 $27.40 $77.75

«L3:Third trimester (27 to 40 weeks)»

Third trimester complete ultrasounds are performed when medically required, as per the second trimester criteria; otherwise see "Limited".

«CODE:403W» Third trimester - Complete –  singleton $98.45 $53.80 $152.25
«CODE:413W» Third trimester - Complete –  twins  $121.20 $68.00 $189.20
«CODE:423W» Third trimester - Complete – triplets or greater $143.45 $88.65 $232.10
«CODE:433W» Third trimester - Limited –  singleton, twins or triplets or greater $50.35 $27.40 $77.75
«CODE:44W» Ultrasonically guided amniocentesis $45.85 $35.15 $81.00
«CODE:46W» Biophysical profile of fetus (not to be billed before 28 weeks) – max of 1 per day $73.20 $47.35 $120.55
«CODE:446W» Biophysical profile per additional multiple fetus (not to be billed before 28 weeks) $50.30 $35.75 $86.05
«CODE:~149W» Nuchal translucency screening $43.90 $30.80 $74.70
«CODE:~150W» Nuchal translucency screening -- each additional fetus (add to 149W) $32.15 $22.50 $54.65

a) First trimester in an approved facility.
b) One per pregnancy.
c) Doppler flow studies (50W/51W) are not payable as a routine scan in addition to 149W/150W.  It is only payable in specific medically required circumstances, such as evidence to suggest that the umbilical cord may be wrapped around the neck, a heart condition is present, etc.

@  Billable by physicians approved by the Saskatchewan Medical Association Tariff Committee.  For the purposes of billing, 149W and 150W are billable on the date that the approval is granted to the physician.  See "Services Billable by Entitlement".

«L2:Gynecology»

«CODE:42W» Intrauterine contraceptive device (IUCD) localization $34.75 $27.40 $62.15
«CODE:43W» Pelvis $79.80 $48.90 $128.70
«CODE:45W» Transvaginal ultrasound study in addition to 43W, 401W-433W $37.45 $22.95 $60.40

«CODE:49W» Transvaginal ultrasound study as an independent procedure – initial
a) Serial studies for infertility are uninsured and not billable.  
b) Follicle tracking for insured services is payable as 49W for the first exam and 449W for subsequent exams within 22 days.
$70.85 $38.15 $109.00

«CODE:449W» Transvaginal ultrasound follicle tracking follow-up study --  subsequent exam within 22 days $42.75 $28.40 $71.15

«L2:Doppler Studies»

1. Doppler flow studies are not payable in the first trimester of pregnancy.

2. Doppler flow studies are only payable when requested and performed for very specific clinical indications to assess the patency, vascularity or venous flow of the arteries/veins, etc.

3. Doppler flow studies are not intended to be used as an "add-on" code in conjunction with any other ultrasound service to routinely assess the area of concern with color Doppler or otherwise.

«CODE:50W» Flow studies including arterial or venous or fetal monitoring or shunt assessment, etc. $67.40 $34.90 $102.30
«CODE:51W» Flow studies including arterial or venous or fetal monitoring or shunt assessment, etc. -- each additional fetus -- bill units $48.85 $25.15 $74.00

«CODE:54W» Peripheral venous -- per limb -- bill units $117.40 $52.35 $169.75

«L2:Prostate/Testicles»

«CODE:60W» Transrectal ultrasound of prostate $63.10 $42.85 $105.95
«CODE:62W» Testicles $55.80 $32.30 $88.10

«L2:Soft Tissue Ultrasounds»

1. Soft tissue ultrasounds are not billable in conjunction with any other ultrasound (joint, testicles, thyroid, etc) when done as routine practice for a brief cursory scan of the surrounding soft tissues as part of the primary procedure requested by the referring physician.

2. There may be instances where a brief scan of the surrounding tissues may reveal an abnormality that should be characterized, if so, the findings and medical necessity of the additional ultrasound must be documented.

3.  * For billing of technical components see "Definitions" (19) and "Services Supervised by a Physician".

«CODE:120W» Head and Neck -- excluding thyroid or parotid glands $60.00 $38.25 $98.25
«CODE:122W» Torso -- excluding axilla or groin $60.00 $38.25 $98.25
«CODE:124W» Back  $60.00 $38.25 $98.25
«CODE:126W» Shoulder to elbow  - two units may be billed for bilateral $60.00 $38.25 $98.25
«CODE:128W» Elbow to fingers  - two units may be billed for bilateral $60.00 $38.25 $98.25
«CODE:130W» Axilla  - two units may be billed for bilateral $60.00 $38.25 $98.25
«CODE:132W» Hip to knee  - two units may be billed for bilateral $60.00 $38.25 $98.25
«CODE:134W» Knee to toes  - two units may be billed for bilateral $60.00 $38.25 $98.25
«CODE:136W» Groin  - two units may be billed for bilateral $60.00 $38.25 $98.25

«L2:Joint Ultrasound»

«CODE:200W» Spine $81.60 $45.90 $127.50
«CODE:202W» Neck $81.60 $45.90 $127.50
«CODE:204W» Complete shoulder or acromioclavicular joint  - two units may be billed for bilateral $81.60 $45.90 $127.50
«CODE:206W» Elbow  - two units may be billed for bilateral $81.60 $45.90 $127.50
«CODE:208W» Wrist  - two units may be billed for bilateral $81.60 $45.90 $127.50
«CODE:210W» Hand -- fingers -- thumb  - two units may be billed for bilateral $81.60 $45.90 $127.50
«CODE:212W» Hip  - two units may be billed for bilateral $81.60 $45.90 $127.50
«CODE:214W» Knee  - two units may be billed for bilateral $81.60 $45.90 $127.50
«CODE:216W» Ankle - two units may be billed for bilateral $81.60 $45.90 $127.50
«CODE:218W» Foot -- toes  - two units may be billed for bilateral $81.60 $45.90 $127.50

Additional units/scans done for comparison purposes are not billable.

«L1:SECTION X – Diagnostic Radiology»
Specialist in Diagnostic Radiology

«CODE:~9X» Special review of x-rays by Radiologist with written report to referring physician(s) - by report    $80.40

Payment for patients 0-5 years of age and patients 65 years of age and older are automatically applied.

Classification: Diagnostic

1. A diagnostic x-ray procedure is an insured service where it is entirely provided outside a hospital by a radiologist and there is a 4-digit referring doctor number in the referring doctor field on the claim.

2. Payment to a radiologist will be made only where they have performed the procedure personally or the technical component was performed by qualified staff for which they assume responsibility and provides daily supervision.

3. Payment for diagnostic x-rays of any one region includes payment for a sufficient number of films to establish a diagnosis in the average case. Payment includes the customary media and its administration, but not the specialist clinic procedures listed in Section A of the Payment Schedule for which an additional payment may be made.

4. Multiple Diagnostic Procedures -- are paid at 100% of the listed payment for each procedure both from Section X and Section A.

5. * For billing of technical components see "Definitions" (19) and "Services Supervised by a Physician".

Technical Component*    Interpretation Component    Technical* & Interpretation Component

«L3:Head»

«CODE:100X» Skull    $32.35    $15.85    $48.20
«CODE:101X» Nasal sinuses    $31.50    $17.00    $48.50
«CODE:102X» Mastoids    $35.05    $18.95    $54.00
«CODE:103X» Facial Bones and/or Zygoma    $31.55    $17.85    $49.40
«CODE:104X» Nasal bones    $23.30    $9.50    $32.80
«CODE:105X» Salivary duct    $24.10    $16.15    $40.25
«CODE:106X» Internal auditory meati    $31.75    $13.90    $45.65
«CODE:107X» Mandible    $28.50    $12.85    $41.35
«CODE:108X» Temporomandibular joints    $31.50    $15.25    $46.75
«CODE:109X» Eye -- without localization -- bill units    $26.90    $14.45    $41.35
«CODE:110X» Sella turcica    $23.20    $13.20    $36.40

«L3:Teeth»

«CODE:120X» Pantomography - not insured for routine dental care    $20.35    $15.30    $35.65
«CODE:121X» Teeth -- isolated area -- bill units    $7.05    $4.85    $11.90
«CODE:122X» Teeth -- quarter set    $10.70    $6.90    $17.60
«CODE:123X» Teeth -- half set    $14.00    $8.10    $22.10
«CODE:124X» Teeth -- full set    $20.15    $12.65    $32.80
«CODE:125X» Eye -- Sweet (or equivalent) localization for foreign body in eye or orbit    $37.75    $26.25    $64.00

«L3:Spine and Pelvis»

«CODE:130X» Cervical    $45.80    $20.00    $65.80
«CODE:131X» Thoracic    $36.75    $16.05    $52.80
«CODE:132X» Lumbar    $45.80    $20.00    $65.80
«CODE:133X» Sacro-iliac joints    $23.00    $15.15    $38.15
«CODE:134X» Sacrum and coccyx    $23.00    $15.15    $38.15
«CODE:135X» Scoliosis survey (limited)    $21.05    $11.95    $33.00
«CODE:136X» Oblique views of spine -- add - bill units    $17.55    $9.75    $27.30
«CODE:137X» Lumbar spine with flexion and extension    $42.45    $22.80    $65.25
«CODE:138X» Cervical spine with flexion and extension    $42.45    $22.80    $65.25
«CODE:140X» Scoliosis survey -- full    $36.15    $22.50    $58.65
«CODE:141X» Myelogram    $94.40    $60.60    $155.00
«CODE:142X» Discogram    $94.30    $55.95    $150.25
«CODE:143X» Pelvis    $24.40    $12.65    $37.05
«CODE:144X» Pelvis and one or both hips    $42.45    $18.60    $61.05
«CODE:145X» Smith-Peterson pinning    $74.15    $48.05    $122.20

«L3:Thorax»

«CODE:150X» Chest    $35.55    $17.80    $53.35
«CODE:151X» Thoracic inlet    $20.35    $11.00    $31.35
«CODE:152X» Ribs    $26.50    $12.20    $38.70
«CODE:153X» Clavicle    $23.30    $10.60    $33.90
«CODE:154X» Sternum or sternoclavicular joints    $23.30    $10.05    $33.35
«CODE:157X» Bronchogram (unilateral)    $46.50    $24.65    $71.15
«CODE:158X» Chest films with fluoroscopy    $28.15    $20.35    $48.50
«CODE:159X» Heart survey and/or cardiac pacemaker evaluation    $28.90    $13.10    $42.00

«L3:Extremities»

«CODE:160X» Acromioclavicular joint Two units billable for bilateral    $23.30    $11.15    $34.45
«CODE:161X» Shoulder Two units billable for bilateral    $25.15    $12.45    $37.60
«CODE:361X» Shoulder -- 4 views – unilateral Two units billable for bilateral    $32.60    $13.60    $46.20
«CODE:162X» Humerus Two units billable for bilateral
«CODE:163X» Elbow Two units billable for bilateral    $23.30    $10.60    $33.90
«CODE:164X» Forearm -- radius and ulna Two units billable for bilateral    $23.30    $10.60    $33.90
«CODE:165X» Wrist Two units billable for bilateral    $23.30    $10.60    $33.90
«CODE:166X» Carpals Two units billable for bilateral    $23.30    $10.40    $33.70
«CODE:167X» Hand Two units billable for bilateral    $28.95    $14.30    $43.25
«CODE:168X» Scapula Two units billable for bilateral    $23.20    $11.45    $34.65
«CODE:170X» Femur Two units billable for bilateral    $23.20    $11.45    $34.65
«CODE:171X» Knee Two units billable for bilateral    $28.95    $14.30    $43.25
«CODE:172X» Tibia and fibula Two units billable for bilateral    $23.20    $11.45    $34.65
«CODE:173X» Ankle Two units billable for bilateral    $27.75    $13.85    $41.60
«CODE:373X» Ankle -- specialty view -- (4 views) unilateral Two units billable for bilateral    $38.45    $15.35    $53.80
«CODE:174X» Tarsus Two units billable for bilateral    $27.75    $13.85    $41.60
«CODE:175X» Forefoot Two units billable for bilateral    $23.20    $11.45    $34.65
«CODE:176X» Os calcis Two units billable for bilateral    $23.20    $11.45    $34.65
«CODE:190X» Single digit, same hand or foot    $21.95    $11.05    $33.00
«CODE:191X» Digits, same hand or foot    $23.30    $11.15    $34.45
«CODE:192X» Orthoroentgenograms    $22.45    $13.40    $35.85

«L3:Bone Survey»

«CODE:193X» Bone survey    $63.20    $30.65    $93.85
«CODE:194X» Joint survey    $61.75    $29.90    $91.65
«CODE:195X» Wrist -- four views Two units billable for bilateral    $24.35    $14.70    $39.05
«CODE:196X» Knee -- four views Two units billable for bilateral    $32.60    $16.80    $49.40
«CODE:197X» Skeletal survey -- infant    $42.80    $22.10    $64.90

«L3:Abdomen»

«CODE:200X» Single film of abdomen (KUB.)    $19.80    $11.00    $30.80
«CODE:201X» Acute abdomen survey with erect and/or lateral views    $28.60    $18.80    $47.40
«CODE:210X» Esophagus    $38.55    $19.55    $58.10
«CODE:211X» GI Series    $71.50    $39.80    $111.30
«CODE:212X» Small bowel study    $55.65    $25.10    $80.75
«CODE:213X» Colon -- enema    $87.25    $44.20    $131.45
«CODE:214X» Colon -- double contrast enema    $124.45    $56.70    $181.15
«CODE:215X» Fluoroscopy for position of tube in abdomen    $15.45    $15.55    $31.00
«CODE:216X» Hypotonic duodenography    $39.05    $25.85    $64.90
«CODE:217X» Double contrast GI with glucagon    $64.25    $25.50    $89.75

«L3:Biliary System»

«CODE:220X» Cholecystogram    $33.95    $17.75    $51.70
«CODE:221X» Cholangiogram -- intravenous    $86.40    $38.45    $124.85
«CODE:222X» Cholangiogram -- operative    $60.15    $30.70    $90.85
«CODE:223X» Cholangiogram -- post-operative (T-tube)    $62.90    $19.50    $82.40
«CODE:224X» Cholangiogram -- transhepatic, percutaneous    $90.40    $44.15    $134.55

«L3:Urinary System»

«CODE:228X» Percutaneous renal cystography    $24.90    $30.75    $55.65
«CODE:229X» Intravenous pyelogram (hypertensive survey)    $75.80    $25.20    $101.00
«CODE:230X» Cystogram    $39.25    $16.95    $56.20
«CODE:231X» Pyelogram -- intravenous    $98.50    $31.20    $129.70
«CODE:232X» Pyelogram -- retrograde    $30.45    $9.70    $40.15
«CODE:233X» IVP -- with voiding cystourethrogram    $82.65    $31.75    $114.40
«CODE:234X» Voiding cystourethrogram    $76.45    $40.15    $116.60
«CODE:235X» Drip infusion pyelogram    $90.40    $43.05    $133.45
«CODE:239X» Urethrogram (retrograde)    $31.20    $15.00    $46.20

«L3:Obstetrics and Gynecology»

«CODE:240X» Fetus -- scout film    $16.40    $11.20    $27.60
«CODE:241X» Fetus -- maturity and/or position    $16.40    $11.20    $27.60
«CODE:243X» Pelvimetry    $28.65    $17.00    $45.65
«CODE:244X» Utero-salpingogram    $30.75    $18.75    $49.50
«CODE:245X» Intrauterine blood transfusion    $27.60    $16.95    $44.55

«L3:Miscellaneous -- without contrast media»

«CODE:300X» Diagnostic Mammography    $66.00    $66.20    $132.20

a) Unilateral.
b) Repeats within 42 days should be submitted "By report".
c) Bill units when bilateral.

1. Screening mammography for women in the 50 to 69 age group is not insured under The Saskatchewan Medical Care Insurance Act. Patients should be directed to the provincial Screening Program for Breast Cancer.

2. Where clinical factors determine the need for a mammography (all ages), the physician may refer to a private or public radiology facility.

3. Women <50, where a mammography is deemed necessary, would be supported under the diagnostic definition.

«CODE:312X» Repeat mammography for radiological localization of non-palpable breast lesion -- bill units    $102.15    $32.95    $135.10
«CODE:301X» Soft tissues of the neck    $22.25    $9.65    $31.90
«CODE:302X» Laryngogram    $39.50    $23.95    $63.45
«CODE:303X» Planigraphy -- first cut    $25.40    $11.90    $37.30
«CODE:304X» Planigraphy -- each additional cut -- bill units    $9.25    $6.05    $15.30
«CODE:306X» Cinefluorograph or videotape    $17.40    $17.40
«CODE:307X» Cardiac catheterization    $34.65    $23.65    $58.30

«L3:Miscellaneous -- with contrast media»

«CODE:320X» Fistula or sinus tract    $26.25    $11.05    $37.30
«CODE:321X» Sialogram    $56.90    $35.60    $92.50
«CODE:322X» Arthrogram    $68.05    $34.60    $102.65
«CODE:323X» Lymphangiography - upper and lower extremities, including pelvis, chest and abdomen    $55.65    $28.05    $83.70
«CODE:324X» Dacryocystography    $27.60    $16.40    $44.00
«CODE:325X» Venogram    $27.60    $52.05    $79.65
«CODE:327X» Selective cavogram    $52.50    $30.00    $82.50
«CODE:328X» Azygography    $55.55    $26.95    $82.50
«CODE:329X» Ventriculogram or encephalogram    $55.55    $26.95    $82.50
«CODE:330X» Arteriography -- peripheral    $55.55    $26.95    $82.50
«CODE:331X» Arteriography -- cerebral    $65.85    $35.15    $101.00
«CODE:332X» Aortography -- aortic    $55.55    $26.95    $82.50
«CODE:333X» Aortography -- selective - coronary, renal, mesenteric, bronchial etc    $55.55    $26.95    $82.50
«CODE:334X» Cardiac angiography    $65.85    $35.15    $101.00
«CODE:335X» Portogram through umbilical vein    $65.85    $35.15    $101.00
«CODE:336X» Posterior fossa myelogram    $73.90    $33.80    $107.70

BLANK PAGE INTENTIONAL

«CODE:~10X» Consultation -- requires formal referral – includes:
a) all visits necessary;
b) history and examination;
c) review of radiology and/or other data; and,
d) written submission of the consultant's opinion and recommendations to the referring doctor.    $68.95

This code does not apply when the radiologist is only providing information to the patient and/or getting consent for a procedure.

Payment for patients 0-5 years of age and patients 65 years of age and older are automatically applied.

Classification: Radiologist Clinical Procedures

1. The following procedures are insured services where provided by a radiologist.

2. Payment to a radiologist will be made only where the radiologist has performed the procedure personally.

3. Multiple diagnostic procedures are paid at 100% of the listed payment.

4. Other multiple procedures (codes 600X and greater) -- are paid using the procedural rules for 0 and 10 day procedures, i.e. could be paid at 75%.

«L2:Angiography»

a) These codes are for use by Radiologists only.
b) Cardiologists will find applicable angiography in the A Section.

«CODE:501X» Vascular access -- for angiography purposes only – max of 2 units per case    $68.95    H
«CODE:502X» Aortography -- for a dedicated Aortogram(s) only – max of 1 unit per case    $70.60    H
«CODE:503X» Large vessel angiography -- for angiograms of the main cerebral and visceral trunks of the aorta, maximum of 3 units per case    $80.40    H
«CODE:504X» Extremity angiogram -- for visualization of vascular structures in either arm or leg, maximum of 2 units per case -- one per extremity    $75.80    H

Procedures 600X to 663X may be charged by other physicians recognized by the College of Physicians and Surgeons as having adequate training in radiology and confining their practice to radiology.

«L2:Transluminal angioplasty»

«CODE:600X» Transluminal angioplasty -- peripheral    $264.20    0    H
«CODE:601X» Transluminal angioplasty -- renal    $310.20    0    H
«CODE:602X» Transluminal angioplasty -- subclavian artery    $263.55    0    H
«CODE:603X*» Transluminal angioplasty -- aorta or aortic valve    $482.45    0    H
«CODE:604X» Stent placement following angioplasty of peripheral, renal or subclavian vessels – add to appropriate angioplasty code – each vessel – bill units    $76.25    0    H

*Note: Post-angioplasty care for elective procedures is included in the payment for this procedure

«L2:Radiology Clinical Procedures»

1. Clinical procedures associated with diagnostic radiology may be charged in addition to the payments listed in Section X as codes 100X to 336X.

2. Procedures 600X to 663X may be charged by other physicians recognized by the College of Physicians and Surgeons as having adequate training in radiology and confining their practice to radiology.

«CODE:606X» Selective catheterization of renal vein by Seldinger technique or cut down, unilateral    $82.70    D
«CODE:607X» Selective catheterization of renal vein by Seldinger technique or cut down, bilateral    $119.45    D    L
«CODE:608X» Selective catheter embolization    $263.55    0    M
«CODE:609X» Intravascular thrombolysis -- composite professional fee    $539.90    0    L
«CODE:610X» Intravascular thrombolysis -- composite professional fee -- repeats within 48 hours    $269.95    0    L
«CODE:612X» Selective transarterial catheterization with infusion    $244.75    0    L
«CODE:613X» Azygography    $46.10    D    L
«CODE:614X» Peripheral venography -- unilateral    $76.35    D    L
«CODE:615X» Cavography -- percutaneous or catheter    $98.25    D    L
«CODE:616X» Lymphangiography -- unilateral including pelvis, abdomen and chest    $90.85    D    L
«CODE:617X» Arthrography --each -- bill units    $70.05    D    L
«CODE:618X» Bronchogram – unilateral    $57.75    D
«CODE:619X» Laryngogram    $37.75    D
«CODE:620X» Myelography    $109.45    D    L
«CODE:621X» Discography -- one or more discs    $59.75    D    L
«CODE:622X» Sialography -- each -- bill units    $74.90    D    L
«CODE:623X» Injection of a sinus tract    $60.30    D    L
«CODE:624X» Reduction or attempted reduction of intussusception by barium enema    $74.70    0    L
«CODE:625X» Percutaneous cholangiography    $149.25    D    L
«CODE:626X» Percutaneous renal cystography    $55.65    D
«CODE:627X» Percutaneous renal cystography -- with alcohol obliteration of renal cyst    $89.55    0
«CODE:628X» Dacryocystography -- each -- bill units    $59.75    D
«CODE:629X» Portogram through umbilical vein    $101.00    D
«CODE:630X» Bronchial brushing    $71.60    D
«CODE:631X» Pelvic venography    $37.75    D    L
«CODE:632X» Tube positioning for small bowel study    $32.45    D    L
«CODE:639X» Epidurography    $66.75    D
«CODE:640X» Lumbar epidural venography    $90.85    D
«CODE:641X» Ureteral stent placement via nephrostomy tract    $152.25    0    L

«L2:Procedures under fluoroscopic, CT or ultrasonic guidance»

«CODE:642X» Percutaneous intrathoracic biopsy    $134.95    D    L
«CODE:643X» Percutaneous intra-abdominal biopsy    $134.95    D    L
«CODE:644X» Percutaneous intra-abdominal drainage    $192.10    0    L
«CODE:645X» Percutaneous biliary drainage    $315.90    0    L
«CODE:646X» Change of drainage tube in relation to 644X, 645X, 647X, 650X, 651X    $69.20    0
«CODE:647X» Percutaneous nephrostomy with nephrogram    $330.00    0    L
«CODE:648X» Manipulation of peritoneal dialysis catheter    $62.80    0
«CODE:649X» Transjugular liver biopsy    $264.20    0
«CODE:650X» Percutaneous gastrotomy    $192.40    0    L
«CODE:651X» Percutaneous jejunostomy    $215.40    0    L
«CODE:652X» Percutaneous insertion of vena cava filter    $178.00    0
«CODE:653X» Fallopian tube cannulation and dilatation -- with selective salpingography, unilateral or bilateral    $140.15    10    L
«CODE:654X» Removal of intravascular foreign body – composite fee    $258.50    0
«CODE:655X» Transjugular portosystemic shunts (TIPS) – composite fee    $620.20    0
«CODE:656X» Non-palpable breast lesion -- needle localization – each, bill units    $74.70    D    L
«CODE:657X» Stereotactic mammographic guided breast biopsy – each, bill units    $33.65    D    L
«CODE:658X» Mammographic or ultrasound guided breast biopsy    $166.55    D

Fluoroscopic control of clinical procedures done by another physician -- per 1/4 hour or major part thereof. For billing of technical components see "Definitions" (19) and "Services Supervised by a Physician".

«CODE:659X» – technical component -- bill units    $10.35    0
«CODE:660X» -- professional component -- bill units    $24.10    0

«CODE:661X» Percutaneous insertion of pleural catheter for closed chest drainage (includes 659X and 660X) – each, bill units    $110.00    0    L
«CODE:662X» Percutaneous intravenous central catheter (PICC) -- includes placement, removal venography and ultrasound – composite fee    $240.00    0    L

Portacath, Infusaport, Hemo-Cath, Hickman-Broviac for chemotherapy or long-term TPN (PORT)

«CODE:663X» -- insertion, composite fee    $265.30    10    L
«CODE:664X» -- remove and replace, composite fee    $382.45    10    L
«CODE:665X» -- remove or revise, same site, composite fee    $144.10    0    L
«CODE:670X» Tunnelled paracentesis drainage catheter -- insertion    $255.00    0    L
«CODE:671X» Tunnelled paracentesis drainage catheter -- removal    $167.65    0    L
«CODE:672X» Tunnelled pleural drainage catheter -- insertion    $209.00    0    L
«CODE:673X» Tunnelled pleural drainage catheter -- removal    $77.45    0    L

«CODE:680X» Rhizotomy - sacroiliac (SI) joint - medial branch nerves of multiple facets and SI joints - includes all ablations of multiple target zones    $560.00    0    L

Note: Specialists in Anesthesia must use code 680H.

«CODE:681X» Rhizotomy – spinal, radiofrequency    $202.20    0    L

«CODE:682X» Percutaneous radiofrequency ablation of solid tumors using CT/ultrasound guidance -- first lesion    $598.95    0    L
«CODE:683X» Percutaneous radiofrequency ablation of solid tumors using CT/ultrasound guidance -- each additional lesion at the same patient contact (max of 3), bill units    $325.60    L

Payable for solid tumors/cancer of lung, liver and kidney.
CT/MRI or ultrasound guidance is included in the fee and cannot be billed in addition.

```
«L1:S E C T I O N  Y – Therapeutic Radiology, Nuclear Medicine»




Therapeutic Radiology services are not listed in this Schedule because in Saskatchewan these procedures are performed 
in facilities funded through other government programs. 
  
Therapeutic Radiology or isotope procedure is an insured service, where: 
  
a) it is entirely provided outside a hospital; and, 
b) it is provided by a qualified specialist in Therapeutic Radiology 
 

```